Aldrich Killian is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in Iron Man vol. 4 #1 (Jan. 2005) and was created by Warren Ellis and Adi Granov.
Guy Pearce portrayed a retooled version of the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 3 (2013).


Publication history
Created by Warren Ellis and Adi Granov, the character first appeared in Iron Man vol. 4 #1 (Jan. 2005).


Fictional character biography
Dr. Aldrich Killian was a brilliant scientist working for the FuturePharm Corporation in Austin, Texas alongside Dr. Maya Hansen. Together they developed Extremis, a Techno-Organic Virus that completely rewrites the body's genetic code, making entire organs more efficient and giving the body healing abilities in an attempt to create a new super soldier with super human strength, speed, endurance, reflexes and the ability to project electricity and breathe fire. He stole a sample and sold it to a terrorist group (based in a slaughterhouse in Bastrop, Texas) with Mallen as a willing test subject. Days later at Futurepharm Corporation offices, Dr. Killian committed suicide at his computer; his suicide note informed Hansen that he had stolen the Extremis serum for an undisclosed purpose.


In other media


Film
A variation of Aldrich Killian appears in the 2013 Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 3, portrayed by Guy Pearce. The co-developer of the Extremis virus, and the founder of the think tank A.I.M., this version's characterization is an amalgamation of Simon Krieger and Mallen. Initially a sickly individual, he was snubbed by Tony Stark in the past and swore revenge. Over the years, through A.I.M. and with the aid of co-conspirator Maya Hansen's designs, Killian had A.I.M. further research and develop the Extremis formula, which imparts varying levels of strength and resiliency to human subjects. Some test subjects resulted in death via various explosion, but Killian recruited Eric Savin and Ellen Brandt to his cause. At some point, he also funded the Ten Rings organization by masquerading as the Mandarin (without the true leader's knowledge) and used British actor Trevor Slattery to maintain this illusion while Killian's Extremis experiments are seen as terrorist attacks. After kidnapping President Matthew Ellis with the intention of an execution on live television, Killian and his Extremis-soldiers are defeated and killed by Iron Man, James Rhodes, and Pepper Potts.


Video games
Aldrich Killian appears in Iron Man 3: The Official Game. It is revealed that, following the events of the film, A.I.M. transferred his subconscious into MODOK in order to continue his plans.
The Iron Man 3 version of Aldrich Killian appears as a boss and an unlockable playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Robin Atkin Downes. Killian and Extremis enforcers accompany the Mandarin in an attack on Avengers Tower, only to be defeated by Iron Man and Captain America.
The Iron Man 3 version of Aldrich Killian appears as a boss and an unlockable playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced by Greg Miller.


References


External links
Aldrich Killian at Marvel Wiki
Aldrich Killian at Comic Vine