American Dream (Shannon Carter) is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Tom DeFalco and artist Brent Anderson, the character first appeared in the MC2 series A-Nex #1 (August 1998). Initially debuting as a civilian in A-Next #1, the character has been referred as "Shannon" in A-Next #3, before appearing in costume as a prospective team member during A-Next #4. Her costume is very similar to that of the comic book superhero Captain America, and her initial weapons are throwing disks like Ricochet's but later obtains the trademark shield.


Publication history
American Dream made her debut in A-Nex #1 (August 1998). She has starred in her own comic book series titled American Dream in May 2008. Later, American Dream appeared in Captain America Corps (June 2011).


Fictional character biography

The niece of S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Sharon Carter, Shannon Carter grew up idolizing Captain America. She was hired by Edwin Jarvis as a tour guide for the Avengers Headquarters, at that time functioning only as a museum. When the new Avengers team was formed, she was determined to join. She wears a costume based on Captain America's and carries on her arms disc weapons resembling miniature versions of his shield. Her strength and agility are honed by intensive physical training. After joining the team as the American Dream, Shannon soon proved herself to be an effective Avenger, and when the team saved the original Avengers from a dark parallel world, Captain America himself judged her worthy to wield the shield of the alternate Captain. She also proved to be an important character in defeating Galactus in the Last Planet Standing limited series. She, along with Stinger and Spider-Girl, took down Galactus from the inside. They survived the imminent explosion by shrinking to microscopic size.
Carter is the leader of the "Dream Team", consisting of herself, Bluestreak, Crimson Curse and Freebooter. All members of the Dream Team became members of the new Avengers team in A-Next #4. American Dream is also an ally of Spider-Girl, Earth Sentry, Blacklight, Coal Tiger, Argo and Captain America.
American Dream has fought against the Sons of the Serpent, Seth, the Revengers, Fatal Force and Loki. When Superia launched a cross-temporal attack to eliminate Steve Rogers' post-war career as Captain America and take his place herself, American Dream was one of five heirs to Rogers' legacy that were assembled by the Contemplator to thwart her plans, the others being Rogers early in his career, John Walker shortly after his own time as Cap, Bucky during his time as Captain America, and Commander A from the twenty-fifth century.


Powers and abilities
Although a non-powered human, American Dream is in peak physical condition and is a skilled martial artist and an Olympic level athlete. She has disc weapons similar to Ricochet's and has a superb aim. She now also carries a version of Captain America's shield, which she uses both defensively and offensively to great effect. Her fighting skills are matched by her leadership ability.


Reception


Volumes


American Dream
According to Diamond Comic Distributors, American Dream #1 sold out in May 2008. American Dream #1 was the 131st best selling comic book in may 2008. American Dream #2 was the 147th best selling comic book in May 2008.


Accolades
In 2016, GameSpot included American Dream in their "20 Most Patriotic Comic Book Characters" list.
In 2017, CBR.com ranked American Dream 13th in their "8 Captain Americas Better Than Steve Rogers (And 7 Who Couldn't Handle It)" list.
In 2018, CBR.com ranked American Dream 17th in their "Shield Of Dreams: The Very Best Captain Americas" list.
In 2022, CBR.com ranked American Dream 10th in their "10 Most Muscular Women In Marvel Comics" list.


Other versions


Secret Wars
During the 2017 Secret Wars storyline, Ellie Rogers is the daughter of Steve Rogers and Sharon Carter in the Battleworld domain of the Hydra Empire. She is part of the Resistance when a group of female assassins and infected by Venom. Ellie escapes while most of the Resistance was killed and eventually turned into the symbiote-powered Viper, but uses these abilities to help Nomad.


In other media
American Dream appears as a playable character in Marvel Super Hero Squad Online, voiced by Tara Strong.
American Dream appears as a female enhanced costume for Steve Rogers / Captain America in Marvel Heroes, voiced by Melissa Disney.
A variation of Shannon Rogers named Sharon Rogers appears as a playable character in Marvel: Future Fight. As part of Captain America's 75th anniversary, she is the daughter of Steve Rogers and Peggy Carter from an alternate timeline where she now serves as Captain America.


Collected editions
American Dream: Beyond Courage. Marvel. 2008-10-15. ISBN 978-0-7851-3184-7.


References


External links
American Dream at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
Shannon Carter on the Marvel Database


Reviews
American Dream #2 review at Major Spoilers
American Dream #1 review at Major Spoilers
Review of American Dream #1, Comics Bulletin