Beautiful Dreamer is a fictional mutant character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Her real name and past prior to joining the Morlocks are unknown. She followed the terrorist Morlock leader Masque for a time and committed criminal acts by manipulating others with her mental powers at his behest. However, Beautiful Dreamer's primary motivation for doing so, as with most of her fellow Morlocks, is presumed to be her desire for company and community. 
Dreamer appeared in the first season of The Gifted played by Elena Satine.


Publication history
Beautiful Dreamer's first appearance was in Power Pack #12 (July 1985), and she was created by Louise Simonson and June Brigman.


Fictional character biography
Dreamer, along with several other Morlocks, confronts the Power Pack, when the young team enters the New York City sewers to look for their lost school books. The empathic Annalee, mourning her deceased children, wishes to have Beautiful Dreamer alter the memories of Power Pack. The goal is to have the Power Pack believe Annalee is their mother. Two of the X-Men, Nightcrawler and Kitty Pryde, stop this plan.When the Morlock leader Callisto had left for a time, Masque decides to re-implement Annalee's desires. The Power Pack's parents have their memories altered and ultimately, three of the Pack. The last member, Energizer, summons help from the X-Men. Callisto returns in time to undo the plan and Beautiful Dreamer restores the minds of all affected.Beautiful Dreamer was among the few members of the Morlocks to survive the Marauders' "Mutant Massacre", during which most members of her community were killed. She stays with X-Factor, for a while, along with her friends, Tar Baby, Ape, and Erg.There was a brief conflict with another group of Morlocks, as all of them do not get along. Dreamer's group eventually returns to the sewers in an attempt to create a new life for themselves.Beautiful Dreamer is one of the 198 mutants who retained their powers after the events of M-Day.Beautiful Dreamer was one of the mutants who heard Cyclops's psychic call to come to San Francisco and was going there, but she was captured by Bastion's Purifiers and injected with the Legacy Virus. She was delivered by the Leper Queen to a Friends of Humanity anti-mutant rally held in Iowa, where the virus activated her powers to the extreme, killing all of the people attending the rally by making their brains "forget" to pump their hearts; she eventually died as well because of the virus.


Powers and abilities
Beautiful Dreamer possesses the ability to psionically alter the memories of others using her special "dream smoke" as a focus.


In other media

"Beautiful Dreamer" is played by Elena Satine in Fox's The Gifted series. Like her comic book counterpart, she is a mutant with the ability to exhale pink smoke that allows her to read, take, or implant memories into the minds of her targets. Her name in this continuity is Sonya Simonson and she is known by the alias "Dreamer", she is also in a relationship with John Proudstar/Thunderbird. In the episode "eXploited", she is murdered by rogue scientist Roderick Campbell, who works for Trask Industries. In the episode "X-roads", Sonya's death is avenged by her best friend, Lorna Dane/Polaris, who utilize her magnetic powers to cause an airplane (that Campbell was in) to crash, killing him.


References


External links
Beautiful Dreamer at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe