Big Man is the name of different fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


Fictional character biography


Frederick Foswell

Frederick Foswell was the first person to assume the Big Man mantle. He used to be a reporter for the Daily Bugle, but in reality he lived a secret life as a criminal boss named Big Man. He was eventually defeated by Spider-Man after which he apparently turned new leaf. He died saving J. Jonah Jameson by taking a bullet for him.


Janice Foswell

Janice Foswell is the daughter of the original Big Man (Frederick Foswell) and sought to follow in her father's footsteps to gain control of the New York underworld. She was soon joined by a new Crime Master and Sandman.She and her Enforcers were defeated by Spider-Man, the Human Torch and the Sons of the Tiger. Over a dispute about eliminating Spider-Man and the Sons, Janice was killed by the Crime Master who turned out to be her fiancé and son of the original Crime-Master, Nick Lewis Jr. (both had separately pursued vengeance against Spider-Man without knowledge of each other's identity).


Frederick Foswell Jr.

Frederick Foswell Jr is the son of the Frederick Foswell and the brother of Janice Foswell. He took over the role to gain revenge for the death of his father and sister, which, owing to J. Jonah Jameson's then-hostile attitude towards Spider-Man, he blamed on the webslinger. Using one of Arcade's Murderworlds, Foswell Jr. attacked them with Scorpion, Life Model Decoys of Human Fly, and replicas of the Spider-Slayers. Piloting a giant robot version of Big Man, he attacked Spider-Man and Jameson, assuming Jameson would help kill Spider-Man. Spider-Man and the remorseful Jameson quickly defeated Foswell Jr. as Spider-Man hurls the Big Man robot outside before it can self-destruct. Foswell Jr. is then arrested by the police.


Other versions


MC2
Henry Pym Jr. is the son of Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne in the MC2 universe. He inherits his father's size changing powers and takes the Big Man name. He is briefly a member of the Revengers before going straight and joining a government-sponsored team.


Ultimate Marvel
The Ultimate Marvel equivalent is named Mr. Big, a mobster and the Enforcers' leader. Mr. Big was scheming to overthrow Wilson Fisk, using Spider-Man as a secret weapon. The plan backfired, and when Fisk learned that he was the one responsible for Spidey's assault on Fisk's office, Fisk crushed the mobster's head bare-handed.


In other media
A variation of the Big Man appears in The Spectacular Spider-Man. This version is the title of a mysterious crime lord who operates from the shadows. Tombstone (voiced initially by Keith David and subsequently by Kevin Michael Richardson in later appearances) is the initial bearer of the name until he is eventually overthrown by the Green Goblin (voiced by Steve Blum).
Additionally, Frederick Foswell (voiced by James Arnold Taylor) also appears in the series as a reporter for the Daily Bugle who works undercover as a criminal nicknamed "Patch" and later goes on to expose Tombstone as the Big Man.
A variation of Henry Pym Jr. appears in Next Avengers: Heroes of Tomorrow, voiced by Aidan Drummond.


References


External links
Janice Foswell at Marvunapp.com