
Fafnir


Falcon


Sam Wilson


Joaquin Torres


Falcona


Falligar the Behemoth
Falligar the Behemoth, also known simply as Falligar, is a fictional deity who makes a single appearance in Thor: God of Thunder #3 (December 2012), as one of the victims of Gorr the God Butcher, who killed Falligar and left his corpse rotting on the shores of his home planet, with his worshipers surrounding him and praying for his resurrection.


Falligar the Behemoth in other media
Falligar the Behemoth's corpse appears in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Thor: Love and Thunder (2022).


Famine
One of the Horsemen_of_Apocalypse


Fancy Dan


Fandral


Fang
Fang is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics.
Fang is a Lupak who is a member of the Royal Elite of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard. Created by Chris Claremont and Dave Cockrum, the character first appeared in X-Men #107 (Oct. 1977). Fang appears to be a hybrid of an alien and a wolf; he has superhuman senses, strength, speed, stamina, durability, agility, and reflexes, as well as claws and fangs. In recent years, the character has developed new abilities, including teleportation, flight, and energy projection/matter manipulation. (Like many original members of the Imperial Guard, Fang is the analog of a character from DC Comics' Legion of Super-Heroes: in his case Timber Wolf.)He joins the other Imperial Guardsmen in battle against the X-Men on behalf of Emperor D'Ken on a nameless Shi'ar Empire planet. He is attacked by Wolverine, who defeats him and strips him of his costume, using it to sneak up on the other Imperial Guardsmen.Fang later becomes a "Borderer": a Guardsman stationed on one of the Shi'ar's conquered worlds to help its governor enforce Shi'ar law there. Fang and a small number of other Guardsmen become renegades and turn traitor, betraying the Shi'ar Empire by serving Deathbird in her attempt to overthrow her sister Princess-Majestrix Lilandra. This incident involves Lord Samedar attempting to use some of the outlaw Guard in order to attack the Earth. His faction is opposed by other Shi'ar and the X-Men, the renegade Guardsmen battling the loyal Guardsmen, and Fang fighting Nightcrawler during the conflict. The Brood interfere with a concussion-style bomb secretly hidden in the midst of the battle.Soon after this incident, Fang is apparently slain when the Brood uses him as a host body for the egg of one of their young on the "Broodworld", former home-world of the Brood. His body is consumed and transformed by the Brood embryo implanted inside him, and the resulting Brood alien later fights Wolverine, who kills it.When the original Fang is killed, another Lupak, named Nev-Darr, is enlisted to take the place of the original Fang on the Imperial Guard. When that one is killed a third one takes his place.
In Untold Legend of Captain Marvel — which takes place before his first encounter with the X-Men — Fang, the Guard, Captain Marvel, and the Kree face an attack by the Brood. A small division of the Guard — Starbolt, Smasher, Fang, and Oracle — are selected to guard the personage of Deathbird, the current regent of the Shi'ar empire. They ally, then fight with the Kree, after the latter come to their assistance against a murderous attack from the Skrulls.Fang is seen as loyal Shi'ar warrior when they go to war with the Inhuman-led Kree. One of many battles in this war leads Fang and many others to the base of the Guardians of the Galaxy, a giant flowing head called Knowhere.Fang is one of the many Shi'ar soldiers assigned to team up with the Starjammers to investigate "The Fault," a space-time anomaly that not only threatens Shi'ar space, but all of reality.Fang reappears years later on Earth. He comes to visit Wolverine, only to discover that his "old buddy" had died. Fang eventually reveals all of his history with Logan to X-23 (Laura Kinney: codename "Wolverine"), revealing how he came back to life after being killed by the Brood. According to Fang, the Lupak reproduce through cloning and keep mental templates of their citizens on file. When one of them dies, a new one is made. He reveals to X-23 that while he is not the Fang Wolverine met back in X-Men #107, as a clone, he is still technically the one Wolverine knew.Fang assists the Guardians of the Galaxy and X-23 in stopping a Brood infestation of a scientific facility.


Fantasia
Fantasia is a fictional character in the Marvel Universe. She first appeared in Captain America #352-353 (April–May 1989), and was created by Mark Gruenwald and Kieron Dwyer. The character subsequently appears as Fantasma beginning in The Avengers #319-324 (July–Oct. 1990).
Fantasia was a member of the Supreme Soviets. The team had been sent by the Soviet government to capture the Soviet Super-Soldiers, who were attempting to defect to the United States. Fantasia disguised the team members with an illusion to appear as members of the Avengers: Red Guardian as Captain America, Perun as Thor, Crimson Dynamo as Iron Man, and Sputnik as the Vision. Eventually, the real Captain America defeated the Supreme Soviets and freed the badly wounded Soviet Super-Soldiers.Fantasia later changed her name to Fantasma when the team became known as the People's Protectorate. Eventually the team broke up and merged with the Soviet Super-Soldiers to form the Winter Guard.Fantasma is rescued from a time anomaly by the Winter Guard, with her former teammates of the Protectorate on her trail. It is revealed that Fantasma is a Dire Wraith queen, and she aligns herself with the Presence and fights the Winter Guard. She is defeated by banishing her into Limbo again.Fantasia is a Russian soldier with super-powers. She is skilled in magic, especially in the use of illusions. She has also shown the ability to fly and certain mental abilities.


Fantomex


Kat Farrell
Kat Farrell first appeared in Deadline #1 and was created by Bill Rosemann. A reporter for the Daily Bugle, Farrell is the co-head of The Pulse, a section of the Bugle which focuses on superheroes.
Initially, Farrell is interested in reporting on 'real' heroes, such as police officers and firefighters, and did not like being forced to cover superheroes.Following six supervillain homicides, Farrell is led to murdered judge Michael Hart, who presided solely over superhero crimes. Hart's wife had also been murdered. The police suspect that it was a double homicide or Hart had killed his wife first. Farrell discovers that Hart had been murdered by the Tinkerer. He had returned, though, with supernatural powers. Paul Swanson, fellow reporter, breaks into her apartment and kills her fish in an attempt to scare her off the case. Undeterred, she nevertheless decides to drop the story anyway, to protect Hart.Farrell also participates in the investigation of fellow journalist Teri Kidder's death, and was the first to interview Luke Cage when he brought the villain Green Goblin to justice.


Other versions of Kat Farrell
In the "House Of M" alternate reality, Farrell is still a reporter. She wants to write the truth but meets resistance because the ruling mutant class controls the newspapers. At one point she meets Hawkeye, who is aware that reality has been altered.


Fasaud


Fatale


Father Time


Joe Faulkner


Fenris Wolf


Feral


Fer-de-Lance


Ferocia
Ferocia is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Fera was a K'un-Lun wolf whose pack killed Heather Rand outside of K'un-Lun. She was later evolved by the magics of Shirrair and has become a servant of Master Khan under the name Ferocia.


Feron


Connie Ferrari
Connie Ferrari is a fictional defense lawyer in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Mark Waid and Andy Kubert, first appeared in Captain America vol. 3 #20 (August 1999).
Connie Ferrari was a well noted New York attorney. She met and started dating Steve Rogers who, unbeknownst to her, was actually Captain America. Their relationship would soon hit a snag due to Ferrari's continual defense towards criminals, most notably her brother David who was the Answer. When Ferrari found out that Rogers and Cap were one and the same, she felt betrayed and broke up with him. Rogers later worked up the courage to apologize to her and the two parted as friends.Later, Ferrari became the Avengers' attorney and gained an assistant named Amy. She seems to somewhat regret breaking up with Rogers as she has started dating men who look like him. She discovers that Flatman unintentionally bought the rights to the name Avengers and comes asking to buy them from him. He agrees under the condition that the Great Lakes Avengers be made official members of the team and she begrudgingly accepts. She later bails the team out of jail, after getting arrested over a bar fight, and inducts Goodness Silva as a member, so that she doesn't get prosecuted by the authorities. During a visit to the GLA's headquarters, Connie discovers that the team had kidnapped Councilman Dick Snerd, who was the super-villain Nain Rouge. They later find out that Good Boy had attacked him, leaving him seriously injured, and drop him at a hospital. Connie then tells the team to lie low for a couple of days and stay out of trouble.


Ferret
The Ferret is a Timely Comics character who first appeared in Marvel Mystery Comics #4 (Feb. 1940). He was a generic detective whose only notable feature was his pet ferret, Nosie. He wears a bulletproof vest and carries a gun.The Ferret appeared in six stories during the Golden Age of Comic Books, in Marvel Mystery Comics #4-9. In 2009, he appeared in the Marvel Mystery Comics 70th Anniversary Special and several issues of The Marvels Project, a limited series.
The Ferret aka Leslie Lenrow was a New York City based private investigator. He often consulted with the police on cases. In one case, he worked with Namor and his companion Betty Dean, the Human Torch and his sidekick Toro, the Angel, and Electro and his creator Philo Zog to defeat Nazi Dr. Manyac, his green flame robots, and Project: Blockbuster, a giant version of the green flame robots.
In 1940, during a seemingly routine missing persons case, the Ferret and Nosie tailed a Professor Hamilton to a nondescript brownstone. In reality, Hamilton was a Nazi spy named Albrecht Kerfoot and the brownstone was a meeting place for spies. The Ferret was caught and stabbed in the heart with a dagger. His body was found by the Angel, who adopted his pet ferret and trailed the spies, eventually working with Captain America and Bucky to defeat them.


Philip Fetter


Fever Pitch
One of the Morlocks


Fiery Mask
Fiery Mask (real name Jack Castle) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He was a Golden Age superhero created by Joe Simon and first appeared in Daring Mystery Comics #1 from Timely Comics.
He first appeared in Daring Mystery Comics #1, then in issues #5-6 and then in Human Torch Comics #2.  He returned in 2008 in The Twelve. Chris Weston has referred to him as "Marvel's Green Lantern."


Fin


Fin Fang Foom


Finesse


Fire-Eater
Tomas Ramirez was born in Madrid, Spain.  He uses the traditional methods of circus fire-eaters, and can consume flame within his mouth and then project it from his mouth without suffering injury.  He uses incendiary "inferno discs" designed by himself and the Clown.  He works for the criminal organization, the Circus of Crime.


Firearm


Firebird


Firebrand


Gary Gilbert


Russ Broxtel


Rick Dennison


Amanda


Erikson Hades


Firelord


Firepower


Jack Taggert


David Roberts


Firestar


Richard Fisk


Vanessa Fisk


Leo Fitz


Fixx


Fixer


Roscoe Sweeney


Paul Norbert Ebersol


Flag-Smasher


Karl Morgenthau


Guy Thierrault


Flashback


Flashfire
Flashfire, originally code-named Tempest, is a member of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard. The character, created by writer Chris Claremont and artist Dave Cockrum, first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #107 (Oct. 1977). Flashfire can generate and fire bursts of light and electricity. Like many original members of the Imperial Guard, Tempest/Flashfire is the analog of a character from DC Comics' Legion of Super-Heroes: in his case Lightning Lad. Flashfire's alter-ego is Grannz; Lightning Lad's is Garth Ranzz. At one point, Grannz was engaged to marry fellow Guardsman Oracle (an analog of Saturn Girl, to whom Lightning Lad was also romantically linked).
Part of the division of the Imperial Guard known as the Superguardians, Tempest is amongst the first of the Imperial Guard encountered by the team of superhuman mutant adventurers known as the X-Men who sought to rescue the Princess-Majestrix Lilandra Neramani from her insane brother, then-Majestor D'Ken. After the battle, Lilandra takes over as Majestrix, and the Guard swears allegiance to her.Deathbird's second attempt at a coup is successful, and she becomes Shi'ar Empress. Tempest is with the Guard when they come into conflict with a rogue Space Knight named Pulsar and an alien named Tyreseus. After a large battle which also involves Rom and other Space Knights — which leads to the deaths of four new Guardsman — Pulsar and Tyreseus are defeated.Empress Deathbird commands the entire Imperial Guard, including Tempest, to fight the combined forces of the Starjammers and Excalibur on Earth so that she can claim the power of the Phoenix Force for herself. The Guard are forced to retreat when Deathbird is put in danger. (Some time later War Skrulls impersonating Charles Xavier and the Starjammers depose Deathbird and restore Lilandra Neramani to the throne. Deathbird cedes the empire back to Lilandra as she has grown bored of the bureaucracy.)Tempest is again part of the mission during Operation: Galactic Storm, an intergalactic war between the Shi'ar and the Kree. The Imperial Guard are integral to the Sh'iar creating a massive super weapon — the "Nega-Bomb" — using Kree artifacts, including the original Captain Marvel's Nega-Bands, which the Guard steals from the dead hero's tomb. This bomb is capable of devastating an area equivalent to that of the Kree Empire (which is supposedly located throughout the Large Magellanic Cloud). Ultimately, the Nega Bomb device is successfully detonated, devastating the Kree Empire, with billions dying instantaneously (98% of the Kree population). The Shi'ar annex the remnants of the Kree Empire, with Deathbird becoming viceroy of the Kree territories.Tempest is renamed Flashfire in the first issue of the Imperial Guard limited series, because of the pre-existing DC character named Joshua Clay (Tempest).
Flashfire has many further adventures with the Imperial Guard, in storylines involving Ronan the Accuser and the Inhumans, and such storylines as "Emperor Vulcan," "Secret Invasion," "X-Men: Kingbreaker," "War of Kings," "Realm of Kings," the "Infinity" crossover, the "Trial of Jean Grey," "Time Runs Out," and the return of Thanos.


Flatman


Flex


Flexo the Rubber Man
Flexo the Rubber Man is a robot created from a form of "live" rubber and appeared in Mystic Comics #1-4.


Flint
Flint (Jaycen) is an Inhuman in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Charles Soule and Joe Madureira, first appeared in Inhuman #3 (October 2014).
Flint was Jason, a young African-born American boy who was adopted by Martin (a white man and his wife). Though Jason loved his parents, he felt out of place, mostly because in the community he grew up in he was the only black person. One day, the Terrigen mists arrived and Martin, who was actually an Inhuman, told Jason to embrace their destiny. Jason emerged from his cocoon and was immediately recruited by Lash. He is renamed Korvostax and forced by Lash and the rest of his team to fight the Royal Family, feeling that they were unworthy of being Inhumans. Lash was defeated by Medusa and Jason opted to join the Inhumans in New Attilan. During the fight, he discovered that he had geokinesis, the ability to control the earth and rocks, and could also encase himself in a rock-like body.While in New Attilan, he learns that his biological family is still in Africa. Soon after he takes the Flint name, Jason finally visits his birthplace Utolan, and discovers his biological mother Irellis and sister Ikelli. Out of respect, Jason changes the spelling of his name to Jaycen. He also starts a relationship with fellow Inhuman Iso.Flint accompanies Crystal's team in investigating the strange skyscrapers in China. When the skyscraper causes Collective Man to lose his powers and split into the five brothers, one is nearly killed by Flint.


Flint in other media
Flint appears in the Avengers Assemble four-part episode "Civil War", voiced by James C. Mathis III. In "Civil War, Part 1: The Fall of Attilan", he is one of several new Inhumans who move to Attilan to study and hone his powers. In "Civil War, Part 2: The Mighty Avengers", he, Iso, and Haechi attempt to escape the Mighty Avengers trying to capture Inhumans who refuse to sign for mandatory registration thanks to the original Avengers. In "Civil War, Part 3: The Drums of War", Flint is among the Inhumans that Ultron brainwashed into attacking humans.
Flint appears in the live-action series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., portrayed by Coy Stewart. This iteration is a young inhabitant of a former S.H.I.E.L.D. base called the Lighthouse, which the Kree took over, decades in the future. He first appears in the fifth season episode "A Life Spent", in a minor role before returning in "Fun & Games" when he is subjected to Terrigenesis by the Kree before he is rescued by Yo-Yo Rodriguez. He soon discovers his geokinetic powers, which he uses to kill a hostile Lighthouse inhabitant who held Yo-Yo, Mack, and Phil Coulson hostage in self-defense. When his close friend Tess is killed by the Kree to draw him out, Flint uses his powers to fight back, only to be taken out before Coulson's team rescues him. Flint, Yo-Yo, Mack, and the revived Tess manage to successfully rescue all the living humans on the Lighthouse from Kree leader Kasius' wrath before Flint uses his powers to create a portal so the S.H.I.E.L.D. team can return to their time. Though Mack and Yo-Yo ask him to come with them, Flint chooses to stay to look after the escaped Inhumans and humans and help rebuild the destroyed Earth. In the season six episode "From the Ashes", Izel uses the energies of her three Di'Allis' to create a clone of Flint from Mack and Yo-Yo's fears and memories. before possessing him to use his abilities to recreate the Di'Allis and forcing Yo-Yo to injure him. After a brief reunion with Deke Shaw, Agent Piper helps Flint escape to get his leg mended. In the series finale "What We're Fighting For", Flint makes a minor appearance protecting Leo Fitz, Jemma Simmons, and Enoch while they helped their friends defeat the Chronicoms. A year later, he became a student of the S.H.I.E.L.D. Coulson Academy under Melinda May.
Flint appears in Marvel Future Avengers, voiced by Motoki Sakuma in Japanese and John Eric Bentley in English.


Flipside


Sally Floyd


Flux


Flying Tiger


Mickey Fondozzi


Foolkiller


Ross G. Everbest


Gregory P. Salinger


Kurt Gerhardt


Forbush Man


Force


Forearm


Foreigner


Forge


Lee Forrester


Forgotten One


Don Fortunato


Dominic Fortune


Jane Foster


Frederick Foswell


Foxbat


Foxfire


Frankenstein's Monster


Freak


Happy Hogan


Eddie March


Spider-Man villain


Freakshow


Free Spirit


Freebooter
Freebooter (Brandon Cross) is a fictional character who appeared in the Marvel Comics' series A-Next. He was created by Tom DeFalco and Brent Anderson, and first appeared in A-Next #4 (1999).
Brandon Cross was a protégé of Hawkeye and Swordsman. He was invited to join the "Dream Team" of new Avengers who were going to become members of A-Next. Donning a Hawkeye-like costume, he assumed the guise of the roguish "Freebooter".
Freebooter quickly displayed a tendency to be a "ladies' man" and poured on the charm for teammate Stinger and found her totally unreceptive to him. Stinger was outraged that new Avengers were being added to the team without her knowledge or permission, and felt no desire to fraternize with the new recruits (especially Freebooter), but in due time Freebooter's fighting skills earned her respect, and his heroic, chivalrous nature her affections. He became a valuable member of the team, but tragedy struck when his close friend and fellow "Dream Teamer" Crimson Curse was killed in the line of duty. Freebooter lost his carefree attitude and became more withdrawn, but he still fought the forces of evil in her honor.
During the events of Last Planet Standing, Freebooter was badly injured, but received help from the former villain Sabreclaw, whom he later convinced to join A-Next while he was recuperating. Freebooter later returns to active Avengers duty.Freebooter has no powers, but has outstanding swordsmanship skills and is an expert archer. His weapon of choice is a retractable bo staff.


Freedom Ring


Spike Freeman


Frenchie


Frenzy


Freya


Friday


Friction


Sharon Friedlander


Frigga


Frog-Man
Frog-Man is the name of two fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


François LeBlanc
François LeBlanc first appeared in Daredevil #10–11 (October and December 1965), and was created by Stan Lee and Wally Wood. 
LeBlanc, a man with Olympic-level leaping skills, is among those recruited by the Organizer, secretly a candidate for the New York mayorship, to form the Ani-Men. The team goes on missions to undermine the current administration. Daredevil defeats them and they all go to prison. The Ani-Men later work for Count Nefaria, whose scientists submit the unwitting Ani-Men to processes that temporarily give them superhuman powers and animal-like forms. LeBlanc gains superhuman strength and stamina, along with frog-like legs. They invade the Cheyenne Mountain missile base and fight the X-Men. After they lose their powers the team is sent to kill Tony Stark, themselves dying by a bomb that Spymaster had planted to kill Stark.


Eugene Patilio


Adrienne Frost


Carmilla Frost
Carmilla Frost is a freedom fighter and member of Killraven's Freemen in a post-apocalyptic alternate future of the Marvel Universe.
The character, created by Don McGregor and Herb Trimpe, first appeared in Amazing Adventures vol 2, #21 (November 1973) and continued to appear in most issues of the title through #39.
Carmilla is from an alternate-reality Earth run by Martians. In 2001, she and her father Andre are taken to the Martians' Yankee Stadium Genetic and Clonal Complex. Andre is blackmailed with threats to his daughter into helping the Martians in performing cloning research. In 2004 she begins assisting her father in his experiments, and eventually becomes an expert molecular biologist. By 2010 she becomes the youngest human designated as a Keeper by the Martians. In 2014 she refuses to conduct cloning experiments on other humans, but two years later, after a Martian Overlord kills Andre, she agrees to clone his corpse in an attempt to restore him to life. Her efforts fail, instead producing the mutated creature Grok. In 2018 she helps Killraven escape from captivity from the Yankee Stadium Genetic and Clonal Complex and joins his Freemen. In 2020 she learns that she is pregnant with the Freeman M'Shulla's child.She and her newborn son Skar are rescued by the cross-reality traveling Machine Man and Howard the Duck.


Christian Frost
Christian Frost is the brother of Cordelia, Adrienne and Emma Frost. He was created by Grant Morrison and Phil Jimenez and made his first appearance in New X-Men #139 (June 2003).
Not wanting anything to do with the family business, Christian often clashed with his father Winston. When Winston learned that his son was gay, he threatened to disown him and forced Christian to dump his then-boyfriend and move into the family home with him. Christian refused and cut ties with his entire family, only remaining in contact with Emma, his closest confidante. In retaliation, Winston used his power to have Christian's boyfriend deported, leading Christian to develop a substance abuse problem as a way to cope with the resulting depression. As his addiction worsened, a concerned Emma asked their father to help him get clean and Winston gladly welcomed his son back before turning on him and locking him in a mental institution in order to "cure" him of being gay once Emma had left. Following the conversion therapy, Christian was released and reinstated as the heir to the Frost business. Christian subsequently murdered Winston as revenge for the years of abuse his father had subjected him to and took over his business empire.
After becoming suspicious that her father had appointed Christian as heir to the business, Emma visited his mansion and was greeted by her father. Demanding to see Christian, Winston refused and exhibited never-before-seen psychic powers to force her to retreat. Worried for her brother's safety, Emma approaches Iceman and he agrees to help rescue Christian from her father. When they return to the mansion, they fight through several psychic apparitions before discovering Winston's body in his study. While Iceman buys her time, Emma reaches out and discovers that Christian is the one causing the apparitions, including that of their father. Emma's attempts to reach Christian's mind were in vain as, in the midst of a mental breakdown causing him to lose control of his powers, Christian was unable to hear her. As the Frost siblings are unable to directly infiltrate each other's minds, Emma creates a telepathic link between Iceman and Christian, allowing them to communicate. Iceman, having recently been outed, empathises with Christian's homophobic experiences and manages to calm him down enough for him to regain control. Emma thanks Iceman and decides to stay with her brother to help him come to terms with what has happened and get him back on his feet.After the mutant nation of Krakoa is formed, Emma re-establishes the Hellfire Club as the Hellfire Trading Company which aims to help distribute supplies in service of mutants, with Emma once again as its White Queen. Emma brings Christian into the fold, appointing him as her White Bishop. Christian begins to become closer with Iceman through his work for the Company and the two begin a casual relationship.


Powers and abilities
Unlike his siblings, Christian's psychic powers did not emerge when he was younger and appear to have developed much more recently. He has the ability to draw upon and materialize energy from the astral plane and create Avatars of energy constructs or project it as a destructive psionic energy blast which causes both physical and mental damage. His newly manifested abilities are extremely powerful, as his projection of Winston was robust enough to convince Emma, herself a particularly advanced telepath, that it was her actual father.


Deacon Frost


Emma Frost


Rumiko Fujikawa


Fury


Jake Fury


Mikel Fury


Nick Fury


Nick Fury Jr.


Vernon Fury


Fusion


Hubert and Pinky Fusser


Markley


Futurist


References