Hellfire (J. T. Slade) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Hellfire was portrayed by Axle Whitehead, in the TV series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. in the third and fourth seasons.


Publication history
Hellfire first appeared in The Mighty Avengers #13 and was created by Brian Michael Bendis and Alex Maleev.


Fictional character biography
Nick Fury recruits Carter Slade's grandson, James Taylor James (also known as J. T. Slade), introduced in The Mighty Avengers #13, to be part of Fury's team against the "Secret Invasion" of the shape-shifting alien Skrulls. The character roll call at the beginning of Secret Invasion #4 (Sept. 2008) refers to J. T. as "Hellfire". Hellfire goes on to make numerous appearances in the ongoing series, Secret Warriors. He is later revealed to be a HYDRA double agent.Nick Fury allows Hellfire to fall to his death as a result of the character's double dealings.


Powers and abilities
Slade has superhuman reflexes and the ability to cause a chain to ignite in flame and cause massive damage.


In other media
An Inhuman version of J. T. James appears in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., played by Axle Whitehead. He was a former mercenary and demolitions expert who was kicked out of Afterlife by Jiaying for breaking into her archives. He first appeared in the episode "Paradise Lost" where Daisy Johnson and Lincoln Campbell ask him about the Kree device in his possession. In the episode "The Singularity", James goes through Terrigenesis at the hands of Hive and receives his power that enables him to charge things up for a fiery explosion. After being swayed to Hive's side, James assisted him, Daisy Johnson, and Alisha Whitley into abducting Holden Radcliffe in order to make their own Inhumans. During the final battle against Hive, Hellfire was defeated by Melinda May. In the episode "Let Me Stand Next to Your Fire", Hellfire was shown working at a fireworks store when Daisy Johnson and Jemma Simmons arrive to warn him about the Watchdogs. However, Hellfire had made a deal with the Watchdogs and sells them out. They are saved by the arrival of Robbie Reyes who battles Hellfire as the Ghost Rider. Robbie defeats Hellfire and he is placed in S.H.I.E.L.D. custody.


References


External links
Hellfire at Marvel Wiki
Hellfire at Comic Vine
Hellfire at Marvel Cinematic Universe