Hope Pym is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The daughter of Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne in the MC2 universe, she is the supervillain Red Queen.
Evangeline Lilly portrays a different version of the character, Hope van Dyne, in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Ant-Man (2015) and appears as the successor of the Wasp in the films Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019) and the upcoming film Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023). Lilly returned in the Disney+ animated series What If...? (2021) as an alternate version. Madeleine McGraw portrayed a young Hope in Ant-Man and the Wasp.


Publication history
The character was created by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz and first appeared in A-Next #7 (April 1999).


Fictional character biography
After the deaths of their parents, Hope Pym and her twin brother Big Man (Henry Pym, Jr.) became outraged when people began referring to A-Next as the "next generation" of Avengers. Using their parents' fortune, the twins put together the supervillain Revengers team and gained access to the Avengers Mansion via their parents' security codes. When they ambushed A-Next, Hope set about to torture Cassandra Lang, feeling that she's the Avengers' rightful heir. Hope was finally stopped when Henry Jr. prevented her from initiating the mansion's self-destruct sequence, which would have killed both A-Next and the Revengers.The Red Queen was later seen using Silikong, a criminal that was mutated with a crystalized human, and his clones to get revenge on the A-Next, but her plans were thwarted by them and American Dream.Sometime after the Spider-Verse event, the Red Queen teamed up with Entralla to take control of A-Next using hypnosis and planned to make Cassandra Lang/Stinger execute her own father, Scott Lang/Ant-Man. Her plans were thwarted by Spider-Girl (now known as Spider-Woman), the New Warriors and Uncle Ben/Spider-Man of Earth-3145.


Powers and abilities
As the Red Queen, Hope Pym uses implanted bio-wings to fly. Also, she has bio-electric blasters installed on the gloves on the back of her hands, and extendable claws built into her gloves. However, she apparently does not have the ability to alter her size.


In other media


Film

Evangeline Lilly portrays Hope van Dyne / Wasp in media set within the Marvel Cinematic Universe, with Madeleine McGraw portraying the character as a child in flashbacks depicted in Ant-Man and the Wasp.


Television
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears in the fourth season of Avengers Assemble, voiced by Kari Wahlgren. This incarnation is a member of the All-New, All-Different Avengers.
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears in Disney XD's Ant-Man animated shorts, voiced by Melissa Rauch.


Video games
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears as a DLC playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers.
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears as a playable character in Marvel: Contest of Champions, Marvel: Future Fight, Marvel Strike Force, Marvel Puzzle Quest and Marvel Avengers Academy.


Theme Parks
Hope van Dyne / Wasp appears in the Ant-Man and The Wasp: Nano Battle! attraction at Hong Kong Disneyland, with Evangeline Lilly reprising her role from the films.


References