Krakoa is a fictional living island appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. It first appeared in Giant-Size X-Men #1 and was created by Len Wein and Dave Cockrum. Initially depicted as an antagonist, Krakoa has since grown into a sentient habitat for the mutant nation that shares its name.


Publication history
On its first appearance in Giant-Size X-Men #1 (1975), Krakoa is introduced as the Pacific island setting where a previous team of X-Men have gone missing while investigating strong readings from Cerebro, a device with the ability to detect mutants. Its name recalls that of Krakatoa, a volcanic island in Indonesia which erupted in 1883. Prof. Charles Xavier recruits a new, international team to rescue them. On their arrival on Krakoa, they are attacked by the flora, fauna, and very ground of the island, until finally Angel—one of the original X-Men they are rescuing—warns them that "the island itself" is the powerful mutant which Cerebro had detected. That is, the entire island of Krakoa had become a single monstrous mutant, similar to the Aspidochelone of legend. (Godzilla and Monster Island are also likely influences, since nuclear testing is blamed for Krakoa's creation.) It needs the mutants in order to leech their life-energy. Both teams escape as Krakoa is ripped from the ocean bed, hurled into space, and apparently dies. While the issue would be celebrated for revitalizing the X-Men, the character / setting of Krakoa was revived only very sporadically until Jonathan Hickman's 2019 X-Men event House of X and Powers of X. In those miniseries (which established the premise of the X-Men comics going forward), the mutants have established communication with Krakoa and agreed to live on it in a symbiotic relationship, establishing the island as an independent mutant nation-state. The true aims of Krakoa have so far been left ambiguous.


Fictional character biography
Krakoa was originally depicted as a very small island in the Pacific Ocean that was located close to where some nuclear bombing tests were done. The radiation somehow mutated the island's ecosystem into a hive-mind entity. Sergeant Fury and his commando team were accidental witnesses to the bomb drop which created Krakoa in early 1945, and soon afterwards crashed on and encountered the island's collective intelligence, with whom they arranged a peaceful parting in exchange for keeping its existence a secret.However, Krakoa later became hungry for the unique life energy created by mutants. It was responsible for the deaths of a team of young mutants, composed of Petra, Sway, Darwin and Kid Vulcan (the latter two were able to survive, but became trapped inside Krakoa), from a parallel X-Men team led by Moira McTaggart. It was later able to capture the original X-Men (then consisting of Cyclops, Angel, Havok, Iceman, Jean Grey and Polaris), which led to the subsequent formation of the new team of X-Men (namely Colossus, Nightcrawler, Storm, Sunfire, Thunderbird, Banshee and Wolverine). The new X-Men team found the original X-Men and by using her powers, Polaris was able to launch Krakoa into outer space.Krakoa was later apparently found and captured for study by the cosmic entity known as The Stranger, as seen when Quasar visited one of his 'laboratory worlds'. Krakoa was eventually freed along with many other specimens and was last seen orbiting around Earth until the energy wave from M-Day and the Collective awakened Vulcan. It is also revealed that before it was shot into outer space, Krakoa released several spores from itself, which later plagued the X-Men.


Becoming a sovereign nation for mutants
During the "House of X and Powers of X" stories, Professor X reveals to Cypher that he had approached Krakoa and took his time and efforts to bring forth the true entity of the island and eventually made a telepathic connection with Krakoa to the point that the relationship of mutant island and mutant man has only grown. More so, when Cypher communed with Krakoa at Xavier's urging, Krakoa related its past. According to Doug Ramsey, long ago, in ancient times, there was a single larger landmass called Okkara, which was attacked by an enemy that came from its core wielding a mystical blade known as the Twilight Sword. During the attack, Okkara was broken up and its conscious divided into two islands, Krakoa and Arakko (Arakko is Okkara in reverse and Krakoa an anagram), that seemingly acted as a yin and a yang which created some sort of a portal to a Hellish dimension known as Amenth, and demons poured out into the world. Fortunately, Apocalypse arrived with his First Horsemen and were able to thwart the attack by sealing of the chasm and isolating Arakko from Krakoa. The horsemen were sealed alongside Arakko on the other side of the chasm, to the sorrow of both Krakoa and Apocalypse. As time passed, a mournful and lonely Krakoa eventually became inert until being reawakened in early 1945 due to testing from the Americans nuclear bomb drop. Years later, Krakoa would be later transformed into a sovereign nation state for the entire mutant race. Led by Professor X, hero and villain alike are welcome on the shores of Krakoa, where the mutants are setting aside their old differences to build a new civilization with Krakoa producing flowers with the ability to grow in mere hours, full "Habitat" structures which are self-sustaining environments that are a part of the interconnected consciousness of Krakoa, that served as embassies around several countries on Earth, the Blue Area of the Moon, the Green Area on Mars and beyond the solar system, all the while remaining connected to its hive mind via Gateways, which provided ways to instantly travel from one part of Krakoa to another. The gateways can only be access by mutants but if a mutant brings a human with them voluntarily, that human must ask for permission from Krakoa to use the gateway. The flowers also create No-Place, a habitat that exists outside the collective consciousness of Krakoa and where Moira MacTaggert has been hiding herself. Even Krakoa does not know this place exists. Krakoa is also the only place in the world to have special pills that extend human life by five years, a "universal" antibiotic and a cure for "disease of the mind, in humans".
Additionally, while Krakoa's main body lies in the Pacific Ocean not far from Australia, other small landmass parts of Krakoa are located off the coast of Africa in the mid-Atlantic Ocean, south of the Azores and west of the Canary Island. This island chain includes the Pointe, Transit and Danger Island which are connected in the same way as the "habitats" to the main body.
The government of Krakoa is headed by the Quiet Council; and an organization called the Great Captains led by Cyclops and consisting of Magik, Bishop and Gorgon. Thanks to telepathic manipulation by Emma Frost, the vast majority of the world recognized Krakoa and established diplomatic/trade ties, with the exceptions of Wakanda, Atlantis, Azania, Canaan, Kenya, Honduras, Brazil, Santo Marco, Terra Verde, Venezuela, Iran, Madripoor, North Korea, Latveria, and Russia, for political and ideological reasons and/or because they belong in the Wakandan Economic Protectorate.More so, Emma Frost was allowed to carve out a piece of Krakoa so she could be given a private kingdom for herself outside the coast of the bay-area. Likewise, Bar Sinister, though not part of Krakoa, was added to its landmass with Flowers of Krakoa that modify the former secret base of Mister Sinister into a Krakoan Habitat, a diplomatic biome interconnected with the island nation's collective consciousness.
Cypher also developed their own mutant language – Krakoan – which is psychically implanted when mutants come to the island and created an entire system to manage the traffic of the Krakoan network which is overseen by Sage. Since the island itself is sentient, Black Tom's plant-manipulating abilities gave him a unique bond that connected him to the island and all of its surrounding plant life. The subsequent connection meant an expansion of his field of awareness to include the plankton and kelp in the surrounding sea and the bacteria and spores floating in the air itself. In total, Black Tom's plant-based awareness gives him a 25-mile radius of acute sensitivity to all that enters and exits the island nation.
However, Krakoa's current achievements come at a steep price. To sustain itself, Krakoa must consume two mutants a year or take in other forms of mutant energy through a more sustainable workaround. Since Krakoa became home base for an ever-growing number of mutants, the island can sustain itself by taking a minimal, theoretically harmless amount of psychic energy from every mutant on its shores. That process is tightly monitored by two mutant "psychic vampires", Selene and Emplate.
However, even with the island's considerable defenses, it seems Krakoa is still vulnerable. The first major attack on Krakoan soil is made by a shadowy anti-mutant group who were able to easily bypass Krakoa's defenses by capturing Domino and faking her bio signature, and while Black Tom's connection to Krakoa and its defense systems proves to be so advanced that Tom becomes alerted to the invasion before even the resident psychics Jean Grey and Charles Xavier himself, the attack nevertheless causes the death of several mutants.Another attack was made by a small band of eco-terrorists known as Hordeculture, who proved capable of disrupting Krakoa's ecosystem by hacking Krakoa's biology and access its gates, which started taking a toll on the island's residents. Beyond some unusually aggressive wildlife and a minuscule decrease in landmass, Jean Grey, Emma Frost and the other telepaths on the island have already noticed that Krakoa is taking more psychic energy than normal.Later, another strange and mysterious island with a large volcano suddenly appeared off the coast of Krakoa making the island to change course and head towards it. With Doug Ramsey off-world, communication with Krakoa is difficult, if not impossible, so Cyclops enlisted Cable and Prestige, to investigate the new landmass. On arrival, they discover the large volcano contains glowing rainbow tentacles popping out of it and encounter thick jungle akin to the Savage Land and populated with otherworldly creatures and an equally other-worldy white, childlike being who identifies himself as a "High Summoner of Arakko", nameless beings that are capable of drawing forth extra-dimensional beings between the dimension where the lost land of Arakko is located and the land beyond the wild borders of Otherworld. After a misunderstanding with Cable, Prestige is able to give the High Summoner knowledge of Krakoan, enabling communication. The Summoner explains that Krakoa and this island are in love, implying that the mysterious landmass appears to be a sliver of Arakko. As Krakoa approaches the strange island, the two islands reach out their floral tendrils and merged into a single much larger island which is now divided between the lush of Krakoa and the forbidden alien terrain of the mysterious island which is named Arak Coral. The Volcano of Arak Coral is revealed to contain a portal to the dimension where Arakko is, which is not currently open.


Rules of Krakoa
The Quiet Council follows three basic rules; 
1) Make more mutants; 
2) Murder no man; 
3) Respect the sacred land of Krakoa.


Notable Locations
Krakoa Pacific
Akademos Habitat (Sextant) – A collection of biomes that acts as home, school and training facility for young mutants.
ALPHA House - This is where the New Mutants reside.
BETA House - This is where the original members of the Hellions reside.
DELTA House - This is where Generation X lives.
Fort - This is where the younger mutants reside.
Kinney Residence - This is where X-23, her clone Gabrielle Kinney, and their pet wolverine Jonathan the Unstoppable reside.
Lifedeath -
OMEGA House - This is where the Mutant Liberation Front reside.
Pod - This is where the Five live.
SIGMA House - This is where the students from the Jean Grey School make their home.
ZETA House - This is where the New X-Men reside.
Arak Coral – A portion of Arakko which was severed along with Krakoa from Okkara millennia ago.
Arbor Magna – A massive tree that contains The Hatchery, the location where The Five perform the resurrection protocols.
Arena – A coliseum used to perform the Crucible, a ritual where depowered mutants face combat to the death to prove worthy of resurrection. Silver Samurai hosted one of the Crucibles here where Storm faced off against a depowered Callisto.
Armory – A subterranean laboratory where Forge creates biological machines using Krakoan organics and houses an Adamantium reserve.
Bar Sinister – The home of Mister Sinister. It was later modified by the Flowers of Krakoa.
Boneyard – The headquarters of X-Factor Investigations. Besides X-Factor, Amazing Baby, Aurora, and Kyle Jinadu live here.
Bower – A place for forlorn and lost mutants to come together and find a connection. This location was founded by Stacy X.
Broken Baths – The cliffside pools of hot and cold water for relaxation.
Carousel – The living space for numerous Krakoa inhabitants who reside in lavish tree houses. Mutant parties took place here.
Cradle – The five secret locations where copies of Cerebro are stored.
Cradle One – Located in House of X
Cradle Two – Located in Island M
Cradle Three – Located in the Summer House
Cradle Four – Located in The Pointe, on Danger Island in the Atlantic Ocean.
Cradle Five – Located in Moira's No-Space
Dead Mutant Cove – A small bay with extremely violent waves. Wolverine once went surfing here.
Green Lagoon – A tiki bar and social club run by Anole and Blob who work as bartenders. They were later assisted by Sights.
Grove – The area of Krakoa that house the Quite Council Chamber where the Quiet Council meets.
Pit of Exile - Any mutant who breaks one of the latter two laws of Krakoa were imprisoned here until further notice. Known inmates are Curse, Madison Jeffries, Melter II, Nanny, Nature Girl, Nekra, Orphan-Maker, Oya, Sabretooth, Third-Eye, and Toad.
Grove of Theoretical Gates – A personal laboratory and study location for Apocalypse.
Healing Gardens – A hospital area where healers and medical staff restore health and heal injuries. Cecilia Reyes and Healer work here.
Hellfire Bay – The stronghold of the Hellfire Trading Company.
Blackstone – The stronghold of the Black King and Black Bishop.
Red Keep – The stronghold of the Red Queen.
White Palace – The stronghold of the White Queen, White Bishop, the mutant chef Saucier, the Stepford Cuckoos.
House of M – The home of Magneto.
House of X – The home of Professor X.
Nanny's Cove -
No Space – A secret home and laboratory of Moira MacTaggert.
Observation – A chamber where the mutant powers of telepathy, weather manipulation, technopathy, and genius-level intellect are used to observe the world and communicate with others.
Oracle – The underground home of Mystique. She also hid Destiny here after her resurrection.
Port Genosha – A distillery that produces alcohol for Krakoa's residents. It was designed by Forge and uses Tempo's abilities to age the alcohol there.
Prison Grotto – The unofficial penitentiary area. Wolverine once held Omega Red here.
Psychic Rescue Room – An isolated location where telepaths can perform psychic surgeries.
Purgatory – The headquarters of Hellions team.
Quarry – A smaller coliseum where Krakoans participate in organized combat competition. Silver Samurai officiated the matches here.
Reservoir – A secluded area near a water inlet. The home of Kwannon.
Rosetta – The home of Cypher and Bei the Blood Moon.
Sunset Cliffs – A series of cliffs on the western coast of Krakoa.
Transit – A location though which mutants can reach any number of habitat and gateways across Earth and universe. Cypher and Sage work here.
Votus Glade - A casting circle used to open the portal for the tournament between Krakoa and Arakko and a memorial to Rockslide.
Wild Hunt – A woodland sparring area on the western shore of Krakoa.
Crow's Nest - A treetop platform.
Shadow King's Cave - This is where Amahl Farouk lives.
Krakoa Atlantic chain
Bunker – A secret location where non-combatant mutants are relocated during any attack on Krakoa Pacific
Danger Island – An interactive training facility for mutants.
The Pointe – A black site that houses the headquarters of X-Force team and one of the backup units for the stored minds of all mutants in the world, archived by Charles Xavier through Cerebro.
Transit – It contains the Gateway that enabled mutants to travel to the Atlantic chain from Krakoa main.
Krakoan Habitat
Braddock Lighthouse – The headquarters of Excalibur.
Graymalkin Habitat – The former home and headquarters of the X-Men. It serves as a nest for the colony of alien Sidri.
Greenspace – A clean energy startup in California's Silicon Valley where human allies experiment with Krakoan technology.
Island M – The former island base of Magneto; occasional port of call for the seabound mutant-rescuing Marauders.
Krakoan Harvest Center – A mutant outpost in Antarctica's prehistoric Savage Land where Krakoan flowers are farmed.
Mykines – A protectorate of Krakoa off the westernmost edge of the Faroe Islands archipelago; location for the first Hellfire Gala.
Red Farm – A facility on Mars where Krakoan flowers are grown by automatons for transport to Earth for processing into medicine. The area was repurposed by Armor years after the Gardeners' death.
Summer House – A Krakoan biome adjacent to the Blue Area of the Moon; home to the Summers family.
Treehouse – The headquarters of the X-Men team located in Manhattan.


X of Swords
After creating the External Gate to reach the dimension where Arakko is located, Apocalypse sent Summoner with Banshee and Unus the Untouchable to herald his arrival. When Summoner reemerged with a wounded and dying Banshee, he pleaded for help and the issue of the External Gate was brought before the Quiet Council. Although the majority of the Quiet Council voted to destroy the External Gate due to its security risk, they were overruled by Krakoa who demanded that the Gate remain open.
After the Krakoan mutants defeated the Swordbearers of Arakko, Krakoa was final able to reunite with Arakko. However, as it turns out, they have no interest in unification because they have evolved from what they originally were, with their personalities becoming radically different over the incredibly long period of time that they have been apart, even needing Doug to translate for both of them.


Inferno
It was eventually discovered that the true motive for the creation of Krakoa as a nation was not to preserve mutantkind, but instead, was to eliminate it, since Moira had lost faith in the mutant dream after too many failed lives, and because her powers gave her an immense ability to inflict her will on mutant history, she hatched a plan to spend her final life avoiding Destiny and slowly boxing mutants in until she could use the mutant cure she had created in one of her past lives which works before mutant powers even manifest. However Moira's plan backfired when Doug Ramsey and his allies (the technological being Warlock, the Arakkoan warrior Bei the Blood Moon and the island of Krakoa itself) made a surprise appearance at No-Place, revealing that he had always been aware of Moira's presence, and knows she was conspiring with Professor X and Magneto. Moira's role in the founding of their country was eventually revealed, thanks to Emma Frost, to the entire ruling council of Krakoa, and they've all been sworn to secrecy about it.


Quiet Council of Krakoa
Bold indicates current members as of 2022.


The spawns of Krakoa
There have been several spawns of Krakoa:


Vega Superior
The first known spore was Vega Superior, who took control of an island, later christened Wagner's isle, whose inhabitants began to worship him. When Nightcrawler crashed his plane there, he found Vega-Superior in the caves under the island, who had inherited his father's memories of the X-Men's genetic code, including that of Nightcrawler. He tries to choke Nightcrawler, but the latter manages to escape. He makes versions of the X-Men which Vega-Superior dubs the Vega-Men, out of natural materials, such as a Colossus made of stone, a Wolverine of ice, an Angel made of leaves and vines, a Nightcrawler made of mud and a Cyclops that shoots lava. However, they are much weaker than the original X-Men, and Nightcrawler easily defeats them all. Vega-Superior then chases him into the ocean before realizing he cannot swim.


Krakoa II
Another spore of Krakoa took control of a construction site on a tropical island, and was discovered and defeated by the Young X-Men when they were investigating the disappearance of 56 construction workers.


Krakoa/Brood Hybrid
Another spawn of Krakoa would be fabricated by the anti-mutant tech genius Kaga, creating his own hybrid out of Brood DNA to attack the X-Men at a later date. Eventually, the creature was cut down in the dawn of its conception by Cyclops in one shot.


Krakoa III/X-Men's Krakoa
Later when Wolverine and some of the X-Men splintered away from Cyclops' group, it is discovered that Beast has built the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning on top of a "male" spawn of Krakoa. After Quentin Quire manages to reason with him, the Krakoa spawn contacts Rachel Summers who ends up translating for him when Rachel tells Wolverine that the Hellfire Club made Krakoa attack them and that he is a mutant like the X-Men. Rachel discovered that this Krakoa was grown by Hellfire Club member Maximillian von Katzenelnbogen (a descendant of Victor Frankenstein) in his artificial supergarden. When Rachel mentions that Krakoa keeps apologizing and wants to join the X-Men, Wolverine ends up letting Krakoa stay as a part of the school. Not soon after the school began having money difficulties, it is Krakoa who solves the school's financial problems by growing great quantities of giant diamonds on the trees he produces. Krakoa's school grounds, the Bamfs, and Doop were able to prevent Swarm from invading the Jean Grey School. After the Terrigen Mists were released into the Earth's atmosphere and began causing the M-Pox plague which was deadly to mutants worldwide, the X-Mansion was moved to the dimension of Limbo where it acted as X-Haven. Krakoa was not part of the displacement and moved his bio-matter offshore to function as an independent island in the Pacific Ocean. After Kid Omega, whom was his only companion for a time, returned to the Xavier School on Thor's suggestion. Krakoa came back to New York searching for him as the son of the living island missed his friend.


Mister Sinister's Krakoa
During the "Avengers vs. X-Men" storyline, Mister Sinister had also obtained a few Krakoa Spores. Like Maximillian von Frankenstein, He was able to mass-produce the Krakoa consciousness. Mister Sinister even turned one into a mobile castle in his underground city. It was later burned down by the Phoenix Five.


Hellfire Club's Krakoa
Soon afterward, it was revealed that Maximillian von Frankenstein had been able to mass-produce Krakoa's consciousness and created several volcanic Krakoas to act in defense of the Hellfire Academy. They were all killed in battle against the X-Men.


Other versions
In the Ultimate Marvel reality, Krakoa is featured in issues of Ultimate X-Men. Krakoa Island is south of Genosha (which in this reality is vastly anti-mutant under the reign of Lord Scheele) and the filming location for Mojo Adams' reality TV shows for executing mutants, such as Scheele's killer Arthur Centino aka Longshot.In What If?: Deadly Genesis, Vulcan's trip to Krakoa saw him kill the rest of the X-Men by accident before the island itself was jettisoned into deep space. Years later, it is discovered by the Silver Surfer, and analysis of the cavern with Sway's powers reveals what really happened to the original team.


References


External links
Krakoa at Marvel Wiki
Krakoa II at Marvel Wiki
Krakoa III at Marvel Wiki
Krakoa (Mister Sinister's version) at Marvel Wiki
Krakoa (Hellfire Academy's version) at Marvel Wiki
Krakoa at Comic Vine
Krakoa III at Comic Vine