Leir is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is one of the Celtic gods of Avalon, god of lightning and the spear.  For ages, enmity existed between the gods of Avalon and the gods of Asgard. Leir is based on Lir in Celtic mythology.


Fictional character biography
Leir dwelt in the realm of Avalon with the other Celtic gods.
When the Heliopolitan god Seth sought to make war against the other gods, he dispatched foul beasts to both Avalon and Asgard. When Thor pursued one of these beasts, the griffin-like beast traveled through a dimensional rift to Avalon, and Thor followed. When the Celtic gods saw Thor, they blamed him for the beasts, and Leir battled Thor through the misunderstanding. Hogun the Grim had followed Thor to offer his support, and when one of the beasts appeared, the gods knew that none of them were responsible for the beasts. The three gods battled the beast and drove it off. Leir felt that he owed Thor a debt for helping against the winged monster, and sent a force of Celtic gods, including Caber, to battle the armies of Seth when he attacked Asgard.Leir and Caber next attacked the camp of the Fomorians, the traditional enemies of Avalon. Leir and Caber later entered Asgard again through a dimensional portal. Leir attempted to claim Sif as his bride, but she said he must help rescue Thor, and battle her champion. Leir and Caber clashed with Heimdall in Asgard, and then accompanied Sif to Earth in search of Thor. Leir, Caber, and Sif then traveled to the Black Galaxy and found Thor there. The gods then traveled to Asgard, with Hercules. Leir, Caber, and Hercules then battled Ymir, and witnessed Asgard's victory over Ymir and Surtur. Leir then challenged Thor to a duel over Sif, believing him to be her champion, but was instead defeated in a duel with Sif.


Powers and abilities
Leir possesses the typical powers of a member of the race of superhumans known as the Celtic gods of Avalon. This includes superhuman strength, speed, durability, stamina, and reflexes, and an extremely long lifespan.
Leir has the ability to generate electrical energy from his hands in the form of a lightning-like spear, which he uses as a weapon. He also wields a shield of unknown properties.
Leir is a highly proficient hand-to-hand combatant, a good swordsman, and an expert at spear-throwing.


References


External links
Leir at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe
http://www.marvel.com/universe/Leir