MODOK (also written as M.O.D.O.K.; an acronym for Mental/Mobile/Mechanized Organism Designed Only for Killing) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The first MODOK is George Tarleton, a former employee of Advanced Idea Mechanics (A.I.M.), an arms-dealing organization specializing in futuristic weaponry, who undergoes substantial mutagenic medical experimentation originally designed to increase his intelligence. While successful, the experiments result in him developing a freakishly overdeveloped head and a stunted body, causing the character's signature look and use of a hoverchair for mobility. After the experiments, he kills his creators and takes control of A.I.M. Following Tarleton being split from MODOK, the new independent being dubs himself MODOK Superior, becoming the archenemy of Gwen Poole. IGN's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time ranked MODOK as #100.Debuting in the Silver Age of Comic Books, MODOK has appeared in over four decades of Marvel continuity, and starred in the miniseries Super-Villain Team-Up: MODOK's 11 #1–5 (Sept.–Dec. 2008), the self-titled one-shot issue MODOK: Reign Delay #1 (Nov. 2009) and the limited series MODOK: Head Games (Dec. 2020–Apr. 2021), released as promotion for the self-titled animated series M.O.D.O.K. (2021), in which MODOK is voiced by Patton Oswalt.
An original incarnation of MODOK first appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe as Anton Ivanov / The Superior, an arms dealer-turned series of Life-MOdel Decoys Designed Only for Killing (L-MODOKs) portrayed by Zach McGowan throughout the fourth and fifth seasons of the show Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (2017–2018), and another portrayal of the character will appear in the film Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023).


Publication history
MODOK first appeared in Tales of Suspense #93–94 (Sept.–Oct. 1967), and became a recurring foe for the superhero Captain America, where he was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Writer Mike Conroy stated "Inevitably, he (MODOK) returned to plague Captain America, whose physical perfection he so resented."MODOK reappeared in Captain America #112 (April 1969), 120 (Dec. 1969) and 133 (Jan. 1971). The character also featured in a storyline in Sub-Mariner #49 (May 1972), before becoming the major villain in an extended storyline in The Incredible Hulk vol. 2 #167–170 (Sept.–Dec. 1973). MODOK also participated in "The War of the Super-Villains" storyline in Iron Man #74–75 (May–June 1975).
MODOK had a series of encounters with the superheroine Ms. Marvel in Ms. Marvel #5 (May 1977), 7 (July 1977) and 9-10 (Sept.–Oct. 1977). Constant battles against the Marvel heroes followed, including Iron Man Annual #4 (Dec. 1977); Marvel Team-Up #104 (April 1981) and Marvel Two-In-One #81–82 (Nov.–Dec. 1981). Following a failed bid to use fellow Hulk foe the Abomination to achieve his ends in The Incredible Hulk vol. 2 #287–290 (Sept.–Dec. 1983), MODOK is assassinated in Captain America #313 (Jan. 1986). The character's body makes a ghoulish return in Iron Man #205 (April 1986).
During the Taking A.I.M. storyline in Avengers #386–387 (May–June 1995), Captain America #440 (June 1995), The Avengers #388 (July 1995) and Captain America #441 (July 1995), MODOK is resurrected. More typical attempts to better the character's situation followed in Iron Man/Captain America Annual 1998; The Defenders (vol. 2) #9–10 (Nov.–Dec. 2001); Wolverine (vol. 2) #142–143 (Sept.– Oct. 1999); Captain America and the Falcon #9 (Jan. 2005) and Cable & Deadpool #11 (March 2005).
The character then made three humorous appearances, in Wha...Huh? #1 (Sept. 2005); Marvel Holiday Special 2006 (Jan. 2007) and GLA-Xmas Special #1 (Feb. 2006). After appearing briefly in the mutant titles X-Men #200 (Aug. 2007) and The Uncanny X-Men #488 (Sept. 2007), MODOK was featured in Ms. Marvel (vol. 2) #14–17 (June–Sept. 2007) and appeared in two miniseries: Marvel 1985 #1–6 (July–Dec. 2008) and Super-Villain Team-Up: MODOK's 11 #1–5 (Aug.–Dec. 2008).
MODOK also featured in The Incredible Hulk (vol. 2) #600 (Sept. 2009); Astonishing Tales (vol. 2) #2 (May 2009) and the one-shot issue MODOK: Reign Delay #1 (Nov. 2009).
MODOK later gained a counterpart and successor in MODOK Superior, who first appeared in Hulk (vol. 2) #29 and was created by Jeff Parker and Gabriel Hardman, who is depicted as the archenemy of Gwendolyn "Gwen" Poole in The Unbelievable Gwenpool #1–25 and 0 (June 2016–April 2018), West Coast Avengers (vol. 3) #4 (Feb. 2019), and '[MODOK: Head Games #1-4 (Dec. 2020-March 2021).


Fictional character biography


George Tarleton
George Tarleton was a technician for the criminal organization Advanced Idea Mechanics (A.I.M.), founded by his father Alvin. He was born in Bangor, Maine. Having recently created the Cosmic Cube, the A.I.M. scientists used advanced mutagenics to alter Tarleton and created the super-intelligent man-mind MODOC (an acronym for Mental Organism Designed Only for Computing) to study and improve upon the object, alongside the JOD1E program. MODOC, however, becomes ambitious, kills his creators and takes control of A.I.M. Renaming himself MODOK (Mental Organism Designed Only for Killing), he comes into conflict with the hero Captain America, who is intent on rescuing S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Sharon Carter from A.I.M.MODOK becomes a recurring foe for Captain America, battling the hero on three more occasions, with the last encounter revealing the villain's origin. MODOK also battles Namor the Sub-Mariner and Doctor Doom, the latter intent on claiming the Cosmic Cube.MODOK reappears and abducts Betty Ross, changing her into the Harpy with gamma radiation at a higher level than that which turned Dr. Robert Bruce Banner into the Hulk in a bid to destroy the monster. MODOK then follows the Hulk and the Harpy to a floating aerie, where Banner cures Ross of her condition. MODOK and a team of A.I.M. agents arrive in time to kill the creature known as the Bi-Beast, the guardian of the aerie, but not before activating a self-destruct mechanism, forcing everyone on board to flee. MODOK also accepts the offer of the extra-dimensional mystic the Black Lama to participate in the latter's War of the Super-Villains, but fails to gain the prize - a golden globe that is supposed to give the winner of the war ultimate power - after being defeated by Iron Man.A.I.M. becomes dissatisfied with the lack of scientific advancement under MODOK's leadership and MODOK's obsession with seeking revenge against metahumans, ousting him from power as a result. MODOK attempts to regain control of the organization and prove his worth by unleashing a nerve agent on New York City, which is prevented by Ms. Marvel and the Vision. MODOK seeks revenge against Ms. Marvel, first attempting to mentally control the heroine and then hiring the Shi'ar assassin Deathbird to kill her; Ms. Marvel overcomes both of these obstacles and defeats both Deathbird and MODOK.MODOK's ambitions grow and he seeks world domination, but is thwarted by Iron Man and the superhero team the Champions. After an attempt to plunder the resources of the Savage Land and a battle with Ka-Zar and the Hulk, the character develops a new biological agent called Virus X. MODOK's attempts to test the agent on the homeless is prevented by the Thing, the Sub-Mariner and Captain America, although the villain escapes and the Thing almost dies when exposed to the virus.Abandoned by A.I.M. for these failures, the character revives long-time Hulk foe the Abomination, planning to use the monster against his superiors. The plan fails when the Abomination is revealed to be mentally unstable, although during the course of the storyline MODOK transforms Dr. Katherine "Kate" Waynesboro (an associate of Bruce Banner) into Ms. MODOK, a female counterpart (the first) of himself. Horrified by MODOK's callous disregard for life, Waynesboro demands to be restored to human form and MODOK willingly complies. Wishing to disassociate themselves from MODOK for good, A.I.M. hires the Serpent Society to assassinate the villain. They succeed, with Death Adder striking the killing blow. The Serpent Society returns MODOK's body to A.I.M., with the organization using it as a supercomputer. A rogue A.I.M. agent remotely operates MODOK's body in a bid to destroy Iron Man, with the battle ending with the body's destruction.Although MODOK had died, A.I.M. temporarily replaced him with his more loyal, and in some ways more effective, second female counterpart MODAM.During the Taking A.I.M. storyline, MODOK is resurrected because A.I.M. needs him to assist with the creation of another Cosmic Cube. In one of the attempts to create the Cube, MODAM is killed (or at least disappears). Eventually MODOK is stranded in an alternate dimension, but manages to return with the unintended help of the supervillain team the Headmen. After attempting to steal a device that boosts mental power, MODOK agrees to aid the Headmen in their plans of conquest, but after taking control of A.I.M. once again, he reneges on the agreement in order to avoid an encounter with the superhero team the Defenders. MODOK next clashes with the Canadian superhero team Alpha Flight before being captured by a group composed of U.S. Naval intelligence and a drug cartel. MODOK is lobotomized and employed to infiltrate spy satellites and manipulate the stock market, but he recovers and exploits the situation until captured and taken into custody by S.H.I.E.L.D.In GLX-Mas Special #1, MODOK and A.I.M. fought Dum Dum Dugan and his S.H.I.E.L.D. squad, but were defeated by Squirrel Girl and her squirrel sidekick Tippy-Toe.MODOK then seeks a sample of the cybernetic species the Phalanx, and after brief encounters with the mutant superhero team the X-Men, battles Ms. Marvel once again, the heroine aided by fellow Avenger Wonder Man during an elaborate scheme by renegade A.I.M. branches to kill MODOK, with one of the rogues being MODOK's long-lost son, who seeks revenge for his abandonment.Employing an elaborate scheme and double-cross, MODOK restores his personal wealth and power and re-establishes himself as the leader of A.I.M. once again.MODOK was seen in Puerto Rico attempting to create an army of genetically enhanced monkeys called A.I.Monkeys to eliminate the recession in A.I.M., until he was defeated by Mister Fantastic, the Invisible Woman and the rookie Puerto Rican hero known as El Vejigante.It is also revealed that MODOK was involved in the creation of both the Red Hulk and the Red She-Hulk and belongs to the Intelligencia, a secret organization of genius-level supervillains.During the Fall of the Hulks storyline, it is revealed that MODOK is a member of the Intelligencia, who had a part in the creation of both the Red Hulk and the Red She-Hulk. They captured some of the smartest men and brought about the events that would lead up to the World War Hulks storyline.
When several heroes are subjected by the Intelligencia to the Cathexis ray, which can transfer radiant energy from one subject to another, Amadeus Cho is affected as well. Unlike the others, who become "Hulked-Out Heroes", his mind expands and becomes so powerful that he gains the ability to warp reality within a 10-foot radius. Using this power, he reverses the process that created MODOK, turning him back into George Tarleton, who knows no better than to get away as quickly as possible.George Tarleton was taken into custody by the U.S. military and remains confined, where Bruce Banner occasionally calls on him to help defuse the "doomsday plans" that MODOK installed in the possibility that his master plan should fail. However, Tarleton appears to remember next to nothing of his former life as MODOK and, in fact, seems to be either traumatized or just an ordinary man again.


MODOK Superior
Unknown to everyone, the doomsday plans left behind by MODOK actually serve as a distraction. The plans themselves are coordinated by a 'cluster' of brains, cloned from MODOK's own, who act as one non-sentient supercomputer. This cluster is destroyed by the Red Hulk and the doomsday plans are stopped. However, one of the cloned brains, rather than being utilized as an organic computer, is allowed to develop naturally and then uploaded with MODOK's mind. This new MODOK (who has the appearance, genius-level intelligence and mental powers of the original MODOK, but apparently none of his weaknesses) calls himself MODOK Superior and prepares to make his own mark on the world.Cooperating with the Intelligencia once again, MODOK Superior and the Intelligencia attempt to study the body of a Spaceknight, which had crashed on Earth for unknown reasons. When the Avengers attempt to stop them, the body is revealed to be the latest vessel for the consciousness of Ultron. In the battle with the Avengers, MODOK Superior takes on Thor, claiming he has the power of a god - and being immediately struck down.During the "Fear Itself" storyline, MODOK Superior reviews the attacks by Skadi and tells his followers that she is actually the Red Skull's daughter Sin, who has tapped into the powers of the Asgardians. He then views from his surveillance that the Red Hulk is fighting the Thing (in the form of Angrir: Breaker of Souls). When he learns that Zero/One and the Black Fog are also after the Red Hulk, MODOK Superior plans to get to the Red Hulk first. MODOK Superior prevents the Black Fog from killing the Red Hulk. MODOK Superior becomes intangible to keep himself from getting attacked by Angrir (who shoots down Zero/One's Helicarrier). MODOK Superior has his encounter with Zero/One and both of them declare a truce to help fight the soldiers of the Serpent. During that time, MODOK Superior starts to develop a crush on Zero/One.In the prologue to the Avengers vs. X-Men storyline, MODOK Superior targets an ex-A.I.M. scientist named Dr. Udaku who was being escorted to the Pentagon by Wakandan forces. Before MODOK Superior could burn Dr. Udaku, the Scarlet Witch arrives and fights MODOK Superior, while smaller MODOK pawns surround the Scarlet Witch. In the nick of time, Ms. Marvel and Spider-Woman arrive and help to defeat MODOK Superior and A.I.M.MODOK Superior and some rogue A.I.M. Agents joined up with S.H.I.E.L.D. in order to make a deal to take down Andrew Forson (the then-current leader of A.I.M.).


Agents of MODOK
After a brief retirement, MODOK Superior returned and opened up a group of assassins called the Agents of MODOK (Mercenary Organization Dedicated Only to Killing) where they killed evil people. However, he made the mistake of recruiting Gwen Poole when she killed his top assassin and took credit for his kills. When he found she was not a superhuman and had no special training, he attempted to eliminate her, but she turned on him and sent him into space with an injured eye and damaged equipment. She then took over his agency for a brief time, but when her plans defeated a group of alien arms dealers and did not get them any money (having turned the client, an old Doombot who escaped from a fight in the past with Squirrel Girl, against them) the agency was disbanded and everyone went their separate ways. After reuniting, the agency faces off against MODOK Superior when he returns from space, who elects to flee rather than fight.MODOK Superior and a group of A.I.M. members attacked a HYDRA airship to capture Shiklah, who was in its custody. Deadpool saved her, and stole MODOK Superior's chair. MODOK Superior was taken to the hospital, where he vowed vengeance on Deadpool for stealing his chair.During the "Secret Empire" storyline, MODOK Superior appears as a member of the Army of Evil and took part in the attack on Manhattan in retaliation for what happened at Pleasant Hill during "Avengers: Standoff!."MODOK Superior resurfaced in a new form during a confrontation with the newest incarnation of the West Coast Avengers (of which Gwen is a member), appearing as an attractive, long-haired man, calling himself BRODOK (Bio-Robotic Organism Designed Overwhelmingly for Kissing) and insisting that he was now reformed. The team eventually exposed his scheme to turn various citizens of Los Angeles into giant mindless monsters and defeated him, reverting him back to the traditional appearance that George Tarleton had.During the "Iron Man 2020" story arc, the War Machine was about to be experimented on by some Deathloks on Lingares when he is saved by someone. When War Machine catches up to the rest of Force Works and gives them their equipment, they discover that his rescuer is MODOK Superior. He states that he wants to add his brainpower to Force Works as its newest member. It turns out that MODOK Superior was the one behind the Deathloks of Lingares and manipulated Force Works into taking out Ultimo's head so that he can take control of it and ultimately become Ulti-MODOK. After the bearded Deathlok was beheaded by the U.S. Agent, War Machine temporarily turned into a Deathlok to control the remaining Deathloks into fighting Ulti-MODOK. When Quake briefly opened a lava-filled chasm, Ulti-MODOK fell into it, with the Deathloks following him down into it as well.


Family life
In the M.O.D.O.K.: Head Games storyline, MODOK Superior begins to have vivid hallucinations of a family life with a human wife and son, named Jodie and Lou, and a similarly robot daughter named Melissa. Believing that he is malfunctioning, and threatened with his life by Monica Rappaccini and the rest of A.I.M., MODOK Superior sets out to "fix" himself. After being briefly killed and resurrected by Gwen, his search for answers leads him to his childhood home where he is reunited with his father, and A.I.M.'s true founder, Alvin Tarleton. Alvin reveals that he forced his son George to undergo the process of becoming the original MODOK against his will as contrary to his origin, George was a rather inept employee at A.I.M. His wife Jodie was a manifestation of a program, called JOD1E, that was meant to sequester him. Now empowered with the knowledge of his true upbringing, MODOK Superior traps his father's consciousness into his phone and uses the bodies of leftover Super-Adaptoids to create solidified and weaponized versions of his imaginary family.


Powers and abilities
Formerly, George Tarleton was subjected to a mutagenic process that granted him hyper-intelligence, sacrificing his body for the world's largest brain. He possessed enhanced intuition, pattern solving, information storage/retrieval, and logical/philosophical structuring. MODOK's ability to predict probable outcomes of tactical and strategic scenarios is so extraordinary that it bordered on precognition. His hunches are heightened to the degree that they were almost always correct. He can recall every moment with this perfect memory. However, his creativity remains at an average human level.
Courtesy of A.I.M. technology, MODOK wore a headband that enables him to focus his mental power into devastating energy beams. He has psychic abilities, enabling him to contact others through telepathy, mentally control individuals or large groups, and generate force fields strong enough to withstand minor nuclear explosions. A side effect in this mutation was also the growth of Tarleton's head due to that point where his body could no longer support its weight. Now, he relies on an exoskeleton and a hoverchair called the Doomsday Chair for movement. The Doomsday Chair is also equipped with destructive weapons, including missiles and lasers.His organs also wore out quickly, necessitating the use of harvested clones, which were utilized to sustain him. As the leader of A.I.M., MODOK had advanced technology, vast resources, and a personal army at his disposal. Currently, MODOK Superior also has the same appearance and powers as Tarleton, but not his weaknesses.


Other versions


Marvel Adventures
A version called "MODOC" (Mental Organism Designed Only for Conquest) appears in the title Marvel Adventures: The Avengers, briefly turning the Avengers into (superior) versions of itself before being defeated.


Ms. Marvel
Over the course of her two series, Carol Danvers (Ms. Marvel) had several interactions with A.I.M. and MODOK; among others, she was both saved from being disincorporated by 24 embryonic MODOCs who had been outfitted with reality-altering powers when working in unison and separated into two separate entities to fulfill her fondest wish. Also, reference was made, by A.I.M. personnel, to many actual MODOCs who, apparently, really did function in the way that MODOK was originally supposed to have done (namely, as docile organic supercomputers).


MODOT
MODOT (Mobile Organism Designed Only for Talking), formerly Nobel Prize hopeful Dimitri Smirkov, appears in the third Howard the Duck miniseries and, unlike his predecessor MODOK, can walk without the aid of a hoverchair. He had no designs of world conquest, but instead was only interested in making money; this may be because the branch of A.I.M. that created him did so specifically so he could talk the head office into increasing their budget. He ended up practically ruling the airwaves, influencing millions of viewers through 100 android hosts, anchormen and reporters, all controlled directly by him.


MODOG
Iron Man has an encounter with MODOG (Mobile Organism Designed Only for Genocide) in the second volume of The Invincible Iron Man. Iron Man dispatches him with ease, dumping him in outer space.


Marvel MAX
The miniseries U.S. War Machine, published under the mature-audience Marvel MAX imprint, showcases another version of MODOK salvaged by S.H.I.E.L.D. when it is discarded by A.I.M., apparently a victim of racial prejudice.


Ultimate Marvel
The Ultimate Marvel version of the character features in the title Ultimate Vision, experimenting with a Gah Lak Tus probe on an A.I.M. space station. Although he starts the story as the amoral genius cyborg George Tarleton, after he is infected by Gah Lak Tus, he is eventually reduced to a disembodied head.Another version of MODOK appeared in Ultimate Armor Wars #2, when Doctor Faustus revealed that he, too, was a cyborg and harbored a tiny MODOK inside his hollow head.


Nextwave
At least four versions of MODOK, apparently based around Elvis Presley, were created by the Beyond Corporation to defend their secret weapons factory, State 51. They were defeated by the Nextwave Squad. Their principal mode of attack seemed to involve shooting cheeseburgers at their target.The following issue revealed that the Beyond Corporation was being run by a disguised infant MODOK, apparently conceived by a MODOK and a MODAM. This MODOK escapes the Nextwave Squad, but it is subsequently killed by its master Devil Dinosaur.


Amalgam Comics
A version of the character features in Iron Lantern #1, a one-shot issue (one of 24) that is part of the Amalgam Comics imprint, which is itself part of the four-issue miniseries DC vs. Marvel. MODOK is crossed with the DC Comics character Hector Hammond to form H.E.C.T.O.R. (Highly Evolved Creature Totally Oriented for Revenge), who is the leader of the Weaponers of A.I.M. (a cross between DC's the Weaponers of Qward and Marvel's A.I.M.)


Marvel Zombies
An alternate version of MODOK is seen being eaten by zombified versions of the She-Hulk and Hawkeye. Later, it is discovered that this universe's Ash Williams had watched this MODOK being devoured.


Earth X
An alternate version of MODOK appeared in Earth X. In recent history, MODOK, like every other telepath on the planet, was killed when the Red Skull's powers first manifested. MODOK's hoverchair, ironically, was later recovered by the Skull's army and the Skull used it as his personal throne.


Old Man Logan
In the pages of Avengers of the Wastelands which takes place on Earth-21923 and serves as a sequel to "Old Man Logan", MODOK is among the villains that attack Danielle Cage's group in Osborn County. He was killed by Viv Vision.


MODORD
A Dazzler-centered story, "Disco Highway", in issue #4 of the miniseries X-Men: Serve and Protect, released in February 2011, features a character named MODORD (Mental Organism Designed Only for Roller Derby).


MODOK: Assassin
During the Secret Wars storyline, the Battleworld domain of Killville is based on a reality where MODOK killed every known superhero, which resulted in its citizens being in constant danger from every supervillain and murderer in Killville.


MODAAK
In the pages of Spider-Gwen, which takes place on Earth-65, Captain America fights against MODAAK (Mental Organism Designed As America's King). The author based this character on American then-U.S. Presidential candidate Donald Trump.


In other media


Television
MODOK and a smaller version of him called ELF (External Life Form) appears in Iron Man, voiced by Jim Cummings. This version of George Tarleton was a scientist who married supermodel Alana Ulanova before his jealous superior, the Red Ghost, turned him into MODOK. Seeking a cure, he joined up with, and became subservient to, the Mandarin.
MODOC appears in Iron Man: Armored Adventures, voiced by Lee Tockar. The "C" in this version's acronym stands for Conquest and is the product of genetics and robotics capable of generating powerful psychic blasts. A.I.M. assembles him in the episodes "Ready, AIM, Fire" and "Panther's Prey" before using the Living Laser to activate him in the episode "Designed Only for Chaos". Following this, he appears in the episodes "Uncontrollable" and "The Hawk and the Spider". In the latter episode, Justin Hammer reassembles MODOC following A.I.M.'s defeat, but Iron Man deactivates his mind before his body is obliterated by Hammer's security.
MODOK appears in The Super Hero Squad Show, voiced by Tom Kenny. This version is a member of Doctor Doom's Lethal Legion, who is often paired with the Abomination as the show's comedic relief, and the "K" in his acronym stands for "Kicking-butt".
MODOC appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Wally Wingert. This version uses the same acronym as the version depicted in Iron Man: Armored Adventures.
MODOK appears in Ultimate Spider-Man, voiced by Charlie Adler.
MODOK appears in Avengers Assemble, voiced again by Charlie Adler. This version serves as A.I.M.'s primary leader. Throughout season one, he aids the Red Skull in founding the Cabal and aiding in their plans. After the Red Skull betrays them in the season one finale episodes "Exodus" and "The Final Showdown", MODOK leads the Cabal in defeating their former leader with the Avengers' help before teleporting himself and his allies away. Following this, MODOK makes minor appearances in seasons two through four.
MODOK appears in Phineas and Ferb: Mission Marvel, voiced again by Charlie Adler.
MODOK appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy short "Star-Lord vs. MODOK", voiced again by Charlie Adler.
MODOK appears in Marvel Disk Wars: The Avengers, voiced in Japanese by Atsushi Imaruoka and in English again by Wally Wingert.
MODOK appears in Marvel Future Avengers, voiced in Japanese again by Atsushi Imaruoka and in English by Mick Wingert.
MODOK appears in Marvel's Spider-Man, voiced again by Charlie Adler. This version is created by A.I.M. using robotics technology and three stolen mental projection devices.
MODOK appears in a self-titled TV series, voiced by Patton Oswalt, This version has a family, consisting of wife Jodie Ramirez-Tarleton, son Louis "Lou" Tarleton, and daughter Melissa Tarleton, the last of whom shares his appearance. Additionally, a time-displaced college-aged version of MODOK called the Anomaly (also voiced by Oswalt) appears throughout the series.


Marvel Cinematic Universe
Some incarnations of MODOK have appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise.

The character was first considered for the film Iron Man (2008) in a script written by Jeff Vintar and Stan Lee for 20th Century Fox before the film began redevelopment at Marvel Studios. MODOK was then considered to appear during early development of the film Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), with Peter Dinklage cast in the role, before the character was cut from the final draft in favour of Alexander Pierce (portrayed by Robert Redford).
In early 2017, the live-action TV series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. was given access from Marvel Studios to use MODOK. They intended to turn Anton Ivanov / The Superior (portrayed by Zach McGowan), who was introduced in the fourth season, into MODOK during the fifth season. While Marvel ultimately retracted access to MODOK, Ivanov was reduced to a disembodied brain in a vat, and granted control over a series of unnamed Life-Model Decoys Designed Only for Killing (L-MODOKs) built in his image.
New Warriors, a planned series that was cancelled when no outlet picked it up, was to feature MODOK. This version would have been a municipal employee named Ernest Vigman, portrayed in the pilot by Keith David.
MODOK will appear in the upcoming film Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023).


Video games
MODOK appears as a boss in Marvel Ultimate Alliance, voiced by Michael Gough. This version is a member of Doctor Doom's Masters of Evil.
MODOK appears in Marvel Super Hero Squad, voiced again by Tom Kenny.
MODOK appears in Marvel Super Hero Squad: The Infinity Gauntlet, voiced again by Tom Kenny.
MODOK appears as a playable character in Marvel vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds and Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3, voiced again by Wally Wingert.
MODOK appeared as an unlockable playable character in Marvel Super Hero Squad Online, voiced again by Tom Kenny.
MODOK appears as a boss in Marvel Super Hero Squad: Comic Combat, voiced again by Tom Kenny.
MODOK appeared as a boss in Marvel Avengers Alliance.
MODOK appeared as a boss in Marvel Heroes, voiced by Nick Jameson.
MODOK appears as a boss and an unlockable playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Dave Boat.
MODOK appears in Disney Infinity 2.0, voiced again by Charlie Adler.
MODOK appears as an unlockable playable character in Marvel Future Fight.
MODOK appears as an unlockable playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced again by Charlie Adler. This version claims to be "reformed", as he now works as a janitor at S.H.I.E.L.D.'s headquarters. To reflect this, the "K" in his name now stands for "Kleaning", even though he knows this is grammatically incorrect.
MODOK appeared as an unlockable playable character in Marvel Avengers Academy, voiced by Mar Andersons.
MODOK appears in Marvel vs. Capcom Infinite, voiced again by Wally Wingert. This version is the leader of A.I.M.brella.
MODOK appears as an unlockable playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2, voiced by Christopher Ragland.
MODOK appears as an unlockable playable character in Marvel Contest of Champions.
MODOK appears as a boss in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order, voiced again by Wally Wingert. After coming into possession of the Soul Stone, he leads A.I.M. in attacking Wakanda to steal the country's wealth of knowledge.
MODOK appears as an unlockable playable character in Marvel Puzzle Quest.
A variation of MODOK appears in Iron Man 3: The Official Game voiced by Nick Sullivan. This version is Aldrich Killian, who transferred his consciousness into the Mechanized Organism Designed Only for Killing.
MODOK appears as the final boss of Marvel's Avengers, voiced by Usman Ally. This version is the founder of A.I.M. who seeks to cleanse Earth of superpowered individuals and build a world protected by science. Dr. George Tarleton was initially a scientist who worked for the Avengers and discovered the Terrigen crystal the latter used to power their new Helicarrier, the Chimera. Following the A-Day disaster, which left Tarleton mutated from exposure to the crystal, he took advantage of the resulting chaos to found A.I.M. and establish a virtual police state in the U.S. over the next five years to ostensibly cure the Inhumans created in the disaster's wake. He is assisted by fellow scientist Monica Rappaccini and her regeneration formula to keep himself alive as his mutation gradually enlarges his head and grants him technopathy. Having developed a hatred for superheroes, Tarleton captures Inhumans to harness their powers so he can create an army of Adaptoids to replace the Avengers, only to eventually discover Rappaccini's formula was derived from Captain America's blood and that it accelerated his mutation instead. In rage, he seemingly kills her, takes the name MODOK, and plots to exterminate all Inhumans in the world, including himself. After merging with a Kree Sentry, the Avengers foil his plans while he is defeated by Kamala Khan, who sends him tumbling into the San Francisco Bay. As of the expansion storyline, "No Rest for the Wicked", a desperate Rappaccini revives MODOK to preserve A.I.M. However, he subsequently kidnaps her.
M.O.D.O.K. appears as a boss in Marvel Future Revolution, voiced again by Wally Wingert. Additionally, alternate versions of M.O.D.O.K. from other realities named K.M.O.O.D. and K.D.O.O.M. also make an appearance.


Music
The band Monster Magnet refers to MODOK in the song "Baby Götterdämerung".
Rapper Akira the Don has a song titled "M.O.D.O.K. (Supervillain Music)" on his mix-tape Superhero Music.


Toys
Toy Biz produced a MODOK action figure for the 1994 Iron Man animated series tie-in toy line.
In 2006, Toy Biz produced a "Build-A-Figure" MODOK figure for Wave 15 of their Marvel Legends toyline.
In 2010, Hasbro made a kid-friendly version of MODOK for its revised Super Hero Squad line, packaged together with Iron Man. He is described on the back of the pack as a "hovering psychic super menace". Originally, MODOK was supposed to be called MODOC (Mental Organism Designed Only for Chaos), but was changed to his more familiar name, though the description does not reveal what the acronym stands for.
In 2014, LEGO released the "Hulk Lab Smash" set for its Marvel Super Heroes theme, which introduced MODOK as a new mini-figure. In 2020, a new brick-built variant of MODOK was released in the Avengers Helicarrier set.
In 2011, Bowen Designs released a statue of MODOK that was designed and sculpted by the Kucharek brothers.
In 2021, a new MODOK figure was released by Hasbro as part of a revival of the Marvel Legends toyline.


Novels
MODOK appears in the Iron Man paperback novel Iron Man: And Call My Killer...MODOK!, by William Rotsler.


Webcomics
MODOK appears in a 1999 strip of Bob the Angry Flower.
MODOK appears in a 2007 strip of Thinking Ape Blues.


Collected editions


Notes


References


External links
MODOK at Marvel.com
MODOK at Marvel Database
MODOK at Comic Vine