Tilda Johnson, introduced as the Queen of the Werewolves and also known as Dr. Nightshade, Deadly Nightshade, or simply Nightshade, is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Introduced as a supervillain opposing Captain America, Falcon, Power Man, Iron Fist, and Black Panther, she is later reformed, becoming the superhero Nighthawk and joining the Avengers in 2017.
In 2018, Gabrielle Dennis portrayed the character in the second season of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) series Luke Cage, depicted as the daughter of Mariah Dillard. In June 2017, Nabiyah Be confirmed that she had been cast as Johnson in the MCU film Black Panther, depicted as the girlfriend of Killmonger, with plans for her to reprise the role in future films; after Dennis was announced to have been cast as Johnson in Luke Cage in July 2017, Be's character was renamed Linda Johnson in reshoots, with the character being killed over the course of the film.


Publication history
Tilda Johnson first appeared in Captain America and the Falcon #164 (August 1973), created by Steve Englehart and Alan Lee Weiss.


Fictional character biography


Queen of the Werewolves
Tilda Johnson was born into poverty in New York City. At an early age, she discovered that she had a natural aptitude for science. As a teenager, she used her extensive knowledge to begin a career as a criminal scientist. The Yellow Claw helped her develop a method for turning normal humans into obedient werewolf-like creatures, and attempted to transform convicts into a werewolf army, but the pair were defeated by Captain America and S.H.I.E.L.D. She later took control of a S.H.I.E.L.D. facility, and used pheromones to force Captain America to battle the Falcon, but was defeated. She clashes with Power Man and Iron Fist on several occasions.Nightshade later appeared as second-in-command of Superia's Femizons. She helps develop a serum to transform men into women which she uses on Captain America and Paladin. She also helped Superia develop her sterilization bomb. She was also involved in a scheme with Dredmund Druid, though as a double agent for Superia. She used a serum to transform Captain America and the ordinary people of Starkesboro, Massachusetts into pseudo-werewolves.


MODOK's 11
Nightshade joined MODOK's 11, with the main objective of stealing the powerful Hypernova. It has been revealed after her last battle against the Black Panther, she tried to start her life over without crime. However, as she was self-taught and had no official degrees, the only medical job she could get was as a receptionist at a hospital. After she pointed out a mistake by one of the doctors, she was fired immediately and contemplated suicide, until MODOK contacted her and hired her for the heist. She had "used up all [her] second chances" and could not afford to turn MODOK down. She developed a friendship with her teammates Armadillo and Puma, and showed this strongly when backing up Puma in saving the Living Laser's life (and secretly giving him his Puma powers back through her "werewolf serum"). The three of them were the only villains to remain loyal to MODOK and get their cash (with a bonus); they appear to be sticking together, and she has offered to help Puma with his legal defense.


Shadowland
During the Shadowland storyline, Nightshade organized Flashmob, a group of former Luke Cage enemies, in order to take on the new Power Man, Victor Alvarez. Although Flashmob was defeated and incarcerated at Ryker's Island, Nightshade's lawyer Big Ben Donovan mentions that he has plans to have them released from Ryker's Island. Donovan was able to secure the release of some of the members, but others had to remain incarcerated due to the warrants and/or parole violations. During the Spider-Island storyline, Nightshade is among the villains that have been infected by the bedbugs that bestowed spider powers on her. She alongside Cottonmouth and Flashmob ended up fighting Heroes for Hire.


Reformation
A reformed Nightshade later allies with the Nighthawk of Earth-31916, helping him defend Chicago from a group of white nationalists called the True Patriots, and the Revelator. Sometime later, they help Hawkeye and Red Wolf after they find barrels of epidurium, a synthetic skin used to build Life-Model Decoys, on a truck that was hijacked. They go to an abandoned coal factory where they end up being attacked by armed soldiers led by Nick Fury. It's later revealed, that Nick Fury, as well as Dum Dum Dugan, Gabe Jones and the other agents, are Life-Model Decoys due to their outdated knowledge and technology. They later thwart an attack by gunmen attempting to rob the base. After defeating the gunmen, Nightshade decides to join Hawkeye and Red Wolf, saying her goodbyes to Nighthawk.Sometime later, the group stops at Dungston, Iowa when their van breaks down. Hawkeye calls Wheels Wolinski to help fix the van until it is revealed that some of the residents are Skrulls, who are being hunted down by mysterious men. While Hawkeye, Red Wolf and Nightshade are fighting, Wolinski discovers that the van has an A.I. system, who convinces him to help in the fight. It is later revealed that the attackers are also Skrulls, led by Super-Skrull. Wolinski then manages to turn the van into a big robot and defeats Super-Skrull. Hawkeye then negotiates with Nick Fury Jr. to provide protection for the town's residents.


Becoming Nighthawk
During the Secret Empire storyline, while Hawkeye joins the Underground resistance following Hydra's takeover in the United States, the rest of the team gather their own resistance army to help the people in rural areas that are being affected by Hydra's cruel treatment. Tilda also reveals that she became the new Nighthawk, after the former was killed by Hydra soldiers. After several successful victories, the resistance heads to a secret base in South Dakota and prepares for their next attack until Hydra forces raid the base. During the battle, Red Wolf and Tilda have a private conversation, in which both confess their feelings for each other, and they share a kiss. They then head out to help the resistance defeat Hydra.


Powers and abilities
Tilda Johnson is an extraordinary genius, and extensively self-taught in genetics, biochemistry, cybernetics, robotics and physics. She also obtained a doctoral degree from an undisclosed university while in prison.
Nightshade sometimes wears protective battle armor, including silver spikes for protection from attack by werewolves. She has created an array of advanced weaponry, and has built numbers of humanoid robots. She created a chemical serum to transform normal humans into werewolves under her control and has used concentrated pheromones to control men through her allure.
Nightshade apparently secretes chemical pheromones from her body that affect the will of certain animals, including werewolves, making them obedient to her commands.


Other characters named Nightshade


Netherworld Nightshade
The man also known as Nightshade is from the Netherworld and the twin brother of Wolfsbane. He wielded Excalibre but his sword was shattered by the Black Knight. He could transform into a giant raven and used the enchanted sword Nightbringer.


Nightshade 2099
In the alternate future set in 2099 A.D., Nightshade 2099 is a research organization rivaling Alchemax. Members included Angela Daskalakis, Miss Pivot, and Travesty. All its members were killed.


In other media


Marvel Cinematic Universe
Two incarnations of Nightshade appear in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise.

Tilda Johnson appears in the second season of the MCU Netflix series Luke Cage, portrayed by Gabrielle Dennis. She is the estranged daughter of Mariah Dillard, and her birth name is Matilda Maybelline Dillard. A product of Mariah's constant rapes by her great-uncle "Pistol Pete" Stokes, Mariah gave birth to Tilda after her grandmother "Mama" Mabel Stokes would not allow her to have an abortion. For all of her childhood and early adult life, Tilda believed her father was Mariah's late husband Dr. Jackson Dillard, and she was raised by Mariah's cousins, the Johnsons (explaining her different surname). The circumstances of Tilda's conception led Mariah having a strained relationship with her over the years. Of the other Stokes family members, Tilda was closest with Cottonmouth. At the start of the second season, Tilda works as a holistic doctor. Mariah, at the suggestion of her publicist, tries to reconnect with Tilda and an effort to use her for publicity, to which she begrudgingly agrees to. Tilda does not call herself "Nightshade", with the name being alluded to instead as an herb that is the key ingredient in the recipe that gives Bushmaster his healing powers. Initially forced by one of Bushmaster's minions to help save him, she begins giving him more of it and covers for him once detective Misty Knight and the police begin looking for him. While under police protection following an attack by Bushmaster, Mariah later tells Tilda the truth about her father, her crimes, and killing Cottonmouth. Tilda's disgust with Mariah reaches its boiling point when she massacres a restaurant of innocent people in an effort to lure Bushmaster out of hiding. This leads to Tilda disowning Mariah and eventually, fatally poisoning her in jail. After she kills Mariah, Tilda assumes everything in her mother's will would be left to her, but Mariah leaves Harlem's Paradise to Luke, and only leaving Cottonmouth's keyboard to Tilda, much to her anger. In the last episode of the second season, she is seen donning the character's signature afro puffs from the comic books, while entering a post-Stokes/Dillard Harlem's Paradise with Luke in the office that Cornell and Mariah once ran their syndicate from.
In June 2017, Nabiyah Be confirmed that she had been cast as Tilda Johnson in the MCU film Black Panther (2018), depicted as the girlfriend of Killmonger, with plans for her to reprise the role in future films; after Dennis was announced to have been cast as Johnson in Luke Cage in July 2017, Be's character was renamed Linda Johnson in reshoots, with the character being killed over the course of the film, shot by Killmonger so that Ulysses Klaue cannot use her as a hostage.


See also
Nighthawk (Marvel Comics)


References