The Masters of Evil is a fictional supervillain team appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Although the roster has changed over the years, the team remains the principal foes, and the evil counterpart, of the superhero team the Avengers.
Listed here are the known members of the Masters of Evil:


Membership
listed alphabetically, after leader


Baron Heinrich Zemo's incarnation
Avengers #6-7, 9-10, 15-16 (July 1964 - May 1965)

Baron Heinrich Zemo (leader) - He is an old enemy of Captain America from World War II.
The Black Knight (Nathan Garrett) - A descendant of Sir Percy of Scandia and an enemy of Giant-Man who uses an arsenal of medieval weapons that employ modern technology (including a lance that fired bolts of energy) and genetically engineers and creates a winged horse called Aragorn.
The Enchantress - An Asgardian sorceress and an enemy of Thor.
The Executioner - A half-giant companion of Enchantress and an enemy of Thor.
The Melter - An enemy of Iron Man who uses melting devices.
The Radioactive Man - A nuclear physicist with radioactive abilities and an enemy of Thor.
Wonder Man - The owner of Williams Innovations who gains his ion-based powers from an ion ray. He sacrificed himself to save the Avengers.


Ultron's incarnation

Avengers #54-55 (July - Aug. 1968); 83 (Dec. 1970)

Ultron-5 (leader) - A robot that was created by Hank Pym.
The Black Knight (Dane Whitman) - The nephew of Nathan Garrett. He joined the team with the intention of betraying them.
Klaw - A sound-based supervillain who is an enemy of the Black Panther and the Fantastic Four.
Whirlwind - A mutant with wind-based abilities who is an enemy of Giant-Man and the Wasp.
The Melter
The Radioactive Man


Egghead's incarnation
Avengers #222 (Aug. 1982); 227 - 229 (Jan. - Mar. 1983)

Egghead (leader) - A mad scientist with an egg-shaped head who is an enemy of Hank Pym.
The Beetle - A supervillain in beetle-themed armor who is an enemy of Spider-Man.
Moonstone - A supervillain whose powers derive from an alien gem who previously fought Captain America and the Hulk.
The Radioactive Man
The Scorpion (Mac Gargan) - A scorpion-themed supervillain who is an enemy of Spider-Man.
The Shocker (Herman Schultz) - A supervillain wielding vibration gauntlets who is an enemy of Spider-Man.
Tiger Shark - A tiger shark-themed supervillain who is an enemy of Namor the Sub-Mariner.
Whirlwind


Baron Helmut Zemo's first incarnation
Avengers #273 - 277 (Nov. 1986 - Mar. 1987)

Baron Helmut Zemo (leader) - The son of Baron Heinrich Zemo.
The Absorbing Man - A supervillain who can absorb the properties of anything and is an enemy of Thor and the Hulk.
Blackout (Marcus Daniels) - A Darkforce-manipulating supervillain.
Black Mamba - A member of the Serpent Society who has Darkforce energy control and illusion-casting abilities. She is an associate who appears as Tanya Sealy.
The Fixer (Paul Norbert Ebersol) - A genius-level criminal inventor.
Goliath (Erik Josten) - A size-shifting supervillain who the Enchantress put through the same procedure as Wonder Man.
The Grey Gargoyle - An enemy of Thor who can temporarily turn anything he touches to stone.
Mister Hyde - A biochemist and an enemy of Thor who is inspired by the novel Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and takes a formula that grants him a similar transformation.
Moonstone
The Screaming Mimi - A supervillain with a sonic scream.
Tiger Shark
Titania - A super-strong supervillain who is the love interest of the Absorbing Man.
Whirlwind
The Wrecking Crew - A group of supervillains that are enemies of Thor.
Bulldozer - A supervillain with an armored metal helmet who fights by ramming his victims head-first.
Piledriver - A supervillain who fights with his oversized pile-driving fists.
Thunderball - The group's thinker, who wields a huge demolition ball on a chain.
The Wrecker - The team's leader, who wields an indestructible crowbar with magical properties. He both hates and fears Thor.
Yellowjacket - A reluctant supervillain who uses one of Hank Pym's stolen Yellowjacket costumes.


Doctor Octopus' incarnation
Doctor Octopus (leader) - A supervillain with four metal tentacles who is an enemy of Spider-Man.
The Absorbing Man
Gargantua - A 25 ft. supervillain that used to work as a biochemist for S.H.I.E.L.D.
Jackhammer - A super-strong supervillain who used to work for Silvermane's HYDRA branch.
Oddball - A juggler and street fighter that is a member of the Death-Throws.
Powderkeg - A super-strong villain who can also sweat a nitroglycerin compound.
Puff Adder - A mutant and Serpent Society member with the power to breathe various debilitative gases (in one instance, the gas was able to eat away a metal lock) and inflate his body mass to a certain extent. He also has superhuman strength and increased physical durability.
The Shocker (Herman Schultz)
Titania
Yellowjacket (Rita DeMara)


Baron Helmut Zemo's second incarnation / the Thunderbolts

Avengers #270-277 (Aug. 1986 - Mar. 1987), Amazing Spider-Man #283 (Dec. 1986) and West Coast Avengers (vol. 2) #16 (Jan. 1987).

Baron Helmut Zemo (leader)
The Beetle / MACH-1
The Fixer / Techno
Goliath / Atlas
Moonstone / Meteorite
Screaming Mimi /Songbird


The Crimson Cowl's first incarnation
The Crimson Cowl (leader) - The daughter of Justin Hammer.
The Aqueduct - A supervillain who can control and shape water.
The Bison - A bison-themed supervillain who was transformed from an injured basketball player by the Egyptian god Seth and had previously fought Luke Cage and Thunderstrike.
Blackwing - The son of Silvermane and an enemy of Captain America and Daredevil, who is an expert bat trainer.
Boomerang - A boomerang-wielding supervillain and an enemy of Spider-Man.
The Cardinal - A supervillain who wears an armored suit that can fly and has a number of offensive weapons including energy blasters, a grenade launcher and a tar gun.
The Constrictor - A boa constrictor-themed supervillain and former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent.
The Cyclone (Pierre Fresson) - A supervillain who wears a costume that enables him to create tornado-force whirlwinds.
Dragonfly - A dragonfly-themed supervillain and former Maggia member who can fly and has a hypnotic gaze.
The Eel (Edward Lavell) - A supervillain who wears an electrified lubricated suit.
The Flying Tiger - A supervillain whose tiger-like body armor makes him capable of powered flight, as well as giving him enhanced strength, durability and endurance, and a set of claws.
The Icemaster - A cryokinetic supervillain.
Joystick - A supervillain with super-strength and super-speed who also wears a wrist device that creates energy batons.
Klaw
Lodestone - A supervillain who can manipulate the magnetic force.
The Man-Ape - A supervillain from Wakanda and an enemy of the Black Panther.
The Man-Killer - A supervillain with super-strength and size-shifting abilities.
Quicksand - A supervillain who can transform her body into a sand-like substance.
Scorcher - A supervillain and an enemy of Spider-Man whose insulated suit has flamethrower equipment.
Shatterfist - A supervillain and an enemy of Thor who wields power gloves that delivers devastating blows.
Shockwave - A supervillain and an enemy of Shang-Chi whose suit enables him to generate an electric shock.
Slyde - A supervillain and skilled chemist whose suit grants him super-speed.
Sunstroke - A solar-manipulating supervillain created by Dominus.
Supercharger - A supervillain who can absorb, store, and release electricity.
Tiger Shark


The Crimson Cowl's second incarnation
The Crimson Cowl (leader)
Black Mamba
The Cardinal
The Cyclone (Pierre Fresson)
The Gypsy Moth - A telekinetic gypsy moth-themed supervillain.
Hydro-Man - A supervillin and an enemy of Spider-Man who can generate, control, and become water.
The Machinesmith - A robotic genius who can transfer his mind into other machines.
The Man-Killer


The Shadow Council's incarnation
Max Fury (first leader) - A rogue Life Model Decoy of Nick Fury.
Baron Helmut Zemo (second leader)
The Bi-Beast - An android whose has a second head on top of his head.
The Black Talon (Samuel Barone) - A voodoo magician.
The Brothers Grimm (Percy and Barton Grimes) - Two brothers whose costumes enable them to produce matter.
Carrion - A former S.H.I.E.L.D. scientist exposed to the Carrion virus.
The Constrictor
Crossfire - A former CIA interrogation expert who became an arms dealer.
Daimon Hellstrom - The half-human son of the demon Marduk Kurios (a.k.a. "Satan") who became Baron Zemo's magic expert.
Diablo - An alchemist who is an enemy of the Fantastic Four.
The Eel
Firebrand - A mutated eco-terrorist.
The Griffin - A beastly supervillain.
Killer Shrike - A mercenary who was enhanced by Roxxon Energy Corporation
Lady Stilt-Man - A female counterpart of the Stilt-Man.
Lascivious - A former member of the Grapplers who was given seduction-based powers.
Letha - An acrobatic wrestler and former member of the Grapplers.
Madame Masque - She serves as Baron Zemo's right-hand woman.
Madcap - An insanity-inducing supervillain.
The Pink Pearl - An obese woman with super-strength who is an enemy of Alpha Flight.
The Porcupine - A porcupine-themed supervillain.
Princess Python - A former member of the Serpent Society and the Circus of Crime who owns a pet African rock python.
The Ringer - A ring-themed supervillain
Satannish - An extra-dimensional demon.
The Squid (Don Callahan) - A squid-themed supervillain.
Tiger Shark
The Tinkerer - A scientific genius who makes weapons and equipment for supervillains.
Vengeance (Kowalski) - A former deputy who wields a hellfire shotgun.
Whiplash (Anton Vanko) - A Russian scientist who wields energy whips.
The Wrecking Crew
Bulldozer
Piledriver
Thunderball
The Wrecker
The Young Masters - A young counterpart of the Masters of Evil who are trained by the Constrictor.
Alex Wilder - A former member of the Runaways who was resurrected by Daimon Hellstrom.
The Black Knight - A female incarnation of the Black Knight.
Coat of Arms - A swordswoman whose magic coat grants her six arms.
Egghead - A robot.
The Enchantress - A sorceress who claims to be an Asgardian.
Excavator - The teenage son of Piledriver and a temporary member of the Wrecking Crew. Excavator wielded an enchanted shovel.
The Executioner - A vigilante who is the son of Princess Python.
Mako - A test tube Atlantean who was grown from the cell samples of Attuma, Orka, Tyrak, and U-Man.
The Melter - A superhuman and leader of the Young Masters who can cause objects to melt.
Mudbug - A mutant with a crayfish physiology who was a former student of the Hellfire Club's Hellfire Academy.
The Radioactive Kid - A young criminal in a hazmat suit has demonstrated the ability to melt and mutate human flesh with a touch.
Snot - A former student of the Hellfire Academy who can propel large amounts of snot from his nose.


Lightmaster's incarnation
Lightmaster (leader) - A supervillain whose suit enables him to manipulate light.
The Absorbing Man
Blackout
Mister Hyde
Titania
Whirlwind
The Wrecking Crew
Bulldozer
Piledriver
Thunderball
The Wrecker


Baron Helmut Zemo's third incarnation
Baron Helmut Zemo (leader)
Atlas
The Fixer
Klaw
The Man-Killer
Moonstone
Tiger Shark
Whiplash
The Wrecking Crew
Bulldozer
Piledriver
Thunderball
The Wrecker


The West Coast Masters of Evil
Madame Masque (leader)
Derek Bishop - The father of Kate Bishop, a.k.a. Hawkeye.
Eleanor Bishop - The mother of Kate Bishop who was revived as a vampire.
The Eel
Graviton - A supervillain with control over gravity.
Lady Bullseye - A ninja.
MODOK Superior - A clone of MODOK with the cloned brain of his predecessor.
Satana the Devil's Daughter (Satana Hellstrom) - The sister of Daimon Hellstrom.


Multiversal Masters of Evil
Doom Supreme (leader) - A version of Doctor Doom from an unidentified reality who is the master of the darkest arts.
Black Skull - A version of Red Skull from an unidentified reality who possesses the Venom Symbiote.
Dark Phoenix - An unidentified host of the Phoenix Force from an unidentified reality who wears a dark robe and a golden mask.
Berserkers - The pets of Dark Phoenix who consider her their mother.
Hound - An unidentified alternate reality version of Wolverine.
An unidentified reality version of Thor.
Ghost Goblin - A version of Green Goblin from an unidentified reality with the powers of Ghost Rider who can also throw flaming skull-shaped Noggin Bombs.
Kid Thanos - A younger version of Thanos that was apparently taken from the past.
King Killmonger - The conqueror of Wakanda and Asgard from an unidentified reality who is wearing an armor that resembles the Destroyer laced with Vibranium.


Other versions
listed alphabetically, after leader


Marvel Adventures
 The Abomination
Baron Zemo
The Leader
Ultron


House of M
The Hood (leader)
The Absorbing Man
Batroc the Leaper
Blizzard (Donnie Gill)
Chemistro (Calvin Carr)
The Cobra (Klaus Voorhees)
The Constrictor
Crossbones
Madame Masque
Mister Hyde
Nitro
The Sandman
Titania
The Wizard
The Wrecking Crew
Bulldozer
Piledriver
Thunderball
The Wrecker


Other media
listed alphabetically, after leader


The Avengers: United They Stand
Helmut Zemo (leader)
The Absorbing Man
Boomerang
The Cardinal
Dragonfly
Moonstone
Tiger Shark
Whirlwind


The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes
Heinrich Zemo (leader)
The Abomination
Chemistro
The Crimson Dynamo (Ivan Vanko)
The Enchantress
The Executioner
The Grey Gargoyle
The Living Laser
Wonder Man


Marvel Disk Wars: The Avengers
The Red Skull (leader)
The Abomination
Graviton
Helmut Zemo
M.O.D.O.K.
Tiger Shark


Avengers Assemble
Helmut Zemo (leader)
The Beetle
Goliath
Fixer
Moonstone
Screaming Mimi


Marvel: Ultimate Alliance
Doctor Doom (leader)
Arcade
Attuma
Baron Mordo
Bullseye
Blackheart
Byrrah
The Crimson Dynamo (Valentin Shatalov)
Dragon Man - left the group
The Enchantress
The Executioner
Fin Fang Foom
The Grey Gargoyle - left the group
The Lizard
Loki
The Mandarin - left the group after trying to take away the leadership position from Doctor Doom
Mephisto
M.O.D.O.K.
Mysterio
The Radioactive Man
The Rhino
The Scorpion
The Shocker
Tiger Shark
Ultron
Warlord Krang
The Winter Soldier
The Wrecking Crew
Bulldozer
Piledriver
Thunderball
The Wrecker