Silver Sable (Silvija Sablinova) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. She is usually depicted as a mercenary, hunter of war criminals, leader of the Wild Pack, and owner of Silver Sable International. While not a criminal, her work as a mercenary has sometimes brought her into conflict with several superheroes. Silver Sable is primarily an ally and sometimes enemy of Spider-Man.
The character has appeared in several media adaptations over the years, including animated series and video games.


Publication history
Created by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz, Silver Sable first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #265 (June 1985). The inspiration for the character comes from safari cards bought by DeFalco. After her debut, she made occasional appearances in various Spider-Man titles, often (but not always) as an ally. Marvel Comics began to publish the series Silver Sable and The Wild Pack in June 1992, written by Gregory Wright and penciled by Steven Butler. This series lasted for 35 issues, until it was canceled in 1995.After the cancellation, Silver made occasional guest appearances in various comics. A limited series titled Sable and Fortune and featuring Silver Sable and Dominic Fortune began in 2006. Originally solicited as a six issue series, Sable and Fortune was later shortened to four issues.


Fictional character biography
The operations of Wild Pack and Silver Sable International drive the national economy of the fictional small European state of Symkaria. The name Wild Pack had been used by the mercenary squad led by Cable for some time, until a legal notice forced them to change it to Six Pack.The State of Symkaria is adjacent to Latveria, the nation ruled by Doctor Doom. Silver Sable and Victor Von Doom have an annual diplomatic dinner at Castle Doom, situated in Doomstadt. Apparently, the friendship between the two states is deep-rooted and dates back to World War II.The family of Silver Sable is composed of her father Ernst Sablinov, her uncle Morty, and the young cousin Anna, who Silver Sable calls her niece, orphaned daughter of an unnamed uncle. Silver's mother, Anastasia Sablinova, was killed in front of her by enemies of her father, who ran a Nazi-hunting group. After this traumatic event, she was trained by her father to become a Nazi-hunting mercenary. After her father's death, she became the leader of the Wild Pack, a team formed by Ernst to apprehend international criminals. She also founded her own company, the Silver Sable International. Like her father's, Sable's squad originally focused on bringing Nazi war criminals to justice, but over time they started to accept other type of missions for profit.Silver was briefly married to the Foreigner, an international assassin and the head of the 1400 Club, but they divorced after she discovered his attempt to kill the President of U.S. After that, their relation varied between non-belligerent and attempts to kill one another.Uncle Morty functions as Sable's assistant, organizing some missions and sometimes trying to influence her sense of judgement. Silver supports Anna's boarding school education. When HYDRA agents took over Anna's school, Sable infiltrated it, rescuing the hostages with the help of Spider-Man, Sandman, and the Wild Pack.While hunting the international criminal Black Fox to recover valuable gems stolen by the thief, she was inadvertently thwarted by Spider-Man. She was later hired by a South African government to neutralize the international terrorist Jack O'Lantern. She enlisted Spider-Man's aid against the Sinister Syndicate, and forms a first alliance with the Sandman. Some time later, she joined forces with Spider-Man, Paladin, Solo, and Captain America to track down Sabretooth and the Red Skull, who masterminded a plot to put the United States against Symkaria.She later worked with Spider-Man to steal incriminating documents from a Maggia money launderer; soon after, she formed The Outlaws. An intelligence mission in Iraq resulted in the death of a Wild Pack member, and she denied compensation to the slain man's family due to his negligence. She devised an initiation test for the Prowler to join The Outlaws, while teaching him a lesson in humility in the process. She hired The Outlaws to retrieve a Symkarian nuclear device in England and to rescue the kidnapped daughter of a Canadian official.Sable's cordial diplomatic relationship with Doctor Doom once proved almost fatal when the annual dinner happened to fall on the time when Doctor Doom's castle had been overtaken by an alien impersonator during the Infinity War crisis. Although Silver noticed that the doppelgänger looked differently, she interpreted it as Doom's desires to change his look. During the dinner, Sable's driver was killed by Doom's robots and a human butler was killed by the doppelgänger himself. Sable protested the brutality and was attacked herself, leading to a chase throughout the castle. The Silver Sable International's soldier came to rescue her, despite Sandman himself also having been replaced by another doppelgänger.Silver has collaborated with various superheroes, including the aforementioned Spider-Man, the Punisher, Daredevil, Luke Cage, Venom, and Captain America.Sandman was a mercenary working for Silver Sable as part of her Wild Pack for a long time, heading The Intruders, the squad of superpowered mercenaries employed by Silver Sable International.Later, Sable was hired to protect Professor Wolfgang Hessler holed up in the Symkarian monastery of St. Eboars. Wolfgang knew of a powerful genetic weapon and, attacked by guilt, was working on a neutralizing agent to give to the world so the weapon would be useless. For this mission, Silver Sable hired a new team formed by The Cat, Paladin, and what she thought was Nomad but turned out to be Madcap. The group fought the Heroes for Hire, who had been hired to take the Professor. Sable's team had the upper hand until Deadpool freed his Heroes allies and Luke Cage turned out to be a traitor, sending the Professor off to the Master of the World.During the Shadowland storyline, Silver Sable ended up paired up with Misty Knight, Paladin, and Shroud when Daredevil's Hand ninjas secretly targeted members of the mafia.During the Ends of the Earth storyline involving one of Doctor Octopus' schemes, Silver Sable recovered Spider-Man and Black Widow after the Avengers are defeated by the Sinister Six. She joined them in an attack on a Sahara facility controlled by Doctor Octopus, with the three defeating Sandman after Spider-Man's allies at Horizon Labs helped determine a way to identify the one particle of sand containing Sandman's consciousness. She was apparently drowned by the Rhino in the final battle when Rhino pinned her to the ground in a flooding corridor in Doctor Octopus' base. Even though Doctor Octopus' plan had been stopped, Rhino also decided to kill himself in the process after the loss of his own wife. However, Madame Web later revealed to Spider-Man that Silver Sable did not perish in the fight within Doctor Octopus' underwater base.She was later seen with other dead people in a Peter Parker's post-mortem experience.She has later revealed to be alive, as she requested Spider-Man's help in thwarting a recent coup of Symkaria organized by Norman Osborn. Sable explained that she had survived her confrontation with the Rhino by using her suit to cloak herself, distracting him long enough for her to escape, using her apparent death to discreetly hunt down most of her enemies.


Powers, abilities, and equipment
Silver Sable is an athletic woman with no superhuman powers. She is a formidable hand-to-hand combatant, and skilled in various martial arts. She is also an expert markswoman, swordswoman, and gymnast. Silver Sable also possesses strong leadership capabilities.Silver Sable wears synthetic stretch fabric lined with Kevlar throughout the torso. She often carries a katana, chais (three-pronged half-moon throwing projectiles), a stun gun, and a derringer. Silver Sable generally has the latest technology and equipment at her disposal, provided by Silver Sable International.


Other versions


Spider-Verse
In the Spider-Verse storyline, a character resembling Silver Sable but called Sable appears as a member of the Hounds who work for Verna of the Inheritors. She and the other Hounds accompany Verna to Earth-1610 to hunt Miles Morales. She is killed by the Superior Spider-Man, and his allies Spider-Punk and Assassin Spider-Man.


Ultimate Marvel
The Ultimate Marvel iteration of Silver Sable is the mercenary leader of the Wild Pack. A mercenary from Symkaria, she had a troubled childhood, apparently ignored by her father and abused by her alcoholic mother. In reality, her father hunted Nazis and she forgave him at his deathbed, deciding to follow his footsteps. While an antagonist to Spider-Man, she is not actually a villain so much as a bounty hunter, and she holds no particular ill-will towards Spider-Man.As the central antagonist in the "Silver Sable" story arc, Silver Sable was hired by Donald Roxxon to capture Spider-Man for questioning.  After weeks of tracking, Sable's mercenaries mistakenly captured Flash Thompson. As they discussed whether to murder Thompson to prevent him from identifying them, Flash escaped. Sable's Wild Pack later captured and brought Spider-Man to Roxxon, who wanted to know why Spider-Man had been defending his company from super villain attacks. Not believing Spider-Man's explanation that he was only in a position to defend the company through sheer chance, Sable and Roxxon ran a background check on him, but this caused a high level S.H.I.E.L.D. alert. While listening to Roxxon's argument for protection, Sable's Wild Pack were attacked by the Vulture. After escaping the chaos, Sable threateningly demanded Roxxon to pay the reward money and swore she will kill Roxxon if their names were told to the authorities.During the "War of the Symbiotes" story arc, Silver Sable and her Wild Pack members were hired by Bolivar Trask to capture Eddie Brock Jr. Sable and the Pack captured Venom after a fight with Spider-Man. However, Sable spared Spider-Man from being taken by the Wild Pack as a thanks for subduing Venom. After delivering Venom to Trask, Sable's Wild Pack provided security for Trask's experiment to remove the Venom symbiote. However, the Beetle breached the facility, paralyzing Sable with knockout gas. Sable's Wild Pack later fought with the Venom symbiote after it abandoned Brock and possessed Spider-Man. Sable's Wild Pack tried to subdue Venom, but were unable to do so until the Ultimates arrived. Despite trying to escape, the Ultimates took the Wild Pack into custody, with Sable being tranquilized by the Wasp. Sable and the Pack were then imprisoned by S.H.I.E.L.D.


What If?
In the What If? storyline "What If Spider-Man had married the Black Cat?", after Black Cat was accidentally killed by the Paladin, Silver Sable and Spider-Man entered into a romantic relationship due to their shared grief over the loss of their loved ones. Uatu the Watcher left it ambiguous whether this relationship will work out or not.


In other media


Television
Silver Sable appears in the Spider-Man: The Animated Series five-part episode "Six Forgotten Warriors", voiced by Mira Furlan. This version is the leader of the Wild Pack. They are hired by Rheinholt Kragor to gather information about the Red Skull's Doomsday device, capture two scientists in order to help operate it, and to keep it from falling into the Kingpin's hands. Sable later kidnaps Spider-Man, Kingpin, and the Insidious Six for Rheinholt, but she and the Wild Pack eventually betray Rheinholt and join forces with Spider-Man, Captain America, the Forgotten Warriors, and the Insidious Six to fight, Rheinholt, the Red Skull, and the Chameleon.
Silver Sable appears in Spider-Man: The New Animated Series, voiced by Virginia Madsen. This version hails from Russia instead of Symkaria.
A variation of Silver Sable appears in The Spectacular Spider-Man, voiced by Nikki Cox. This version is Sable Manfredi, the daughter of the crime boss Silvermane who has a particular dislike for Hammerhead due to a past relationship. In the episode "Accomplices", she represents her jailed father in an underground auction organized by Oscorp for a chip that contains technology capable of producing super-soldiers akin to the Rhino. However, she is opposed by Hammerhead and Roderick Kingsley. When the latter outbids her, she attacks him at the docks in an attempt to retrieve the chip, coming into conflict with Hammerhead and Spider-Man. Sable is eventually defeated, but escapes police custody. In the episode "Gangland", Sable appears alongside Silvermane at a Valentine's Day summit with Tombstone and Doctor Octopus. However, Hammerhead betrays them all in a failed attempt to seize control of the criminal underworld.
Silver Sable appears in Marvel's Spider-Man, voiced by April Stewart. This version is the leader of the Wild Pack.
Sony cancelled its planned female team-up film Silver & Black (see below) in August 2018 with the intention of reworking it as two separate solo films focusing on each of the title characters, Silver Sable and Black Cat respectively. Silver & Black's planned director Gina Prince-Bythewood was expected to remain involved as a producer. By January 2020, the project was believed to be in development as a television series, which Prince-Bythewood confirmed in April 2020. She suggested that it could be a limited series and that it had the potential to be released on Disney+.


Film
In March 2017, it was reported that Sony Pictures was developing a Black Cat and Silver Sable-centered film with writer Christopher Yost. It was intended to be a part of a shared universe called the Sony's Spider-Man Universe, which is centered on characters from the Spider-Man mythology and began with the live-action Venom in 2018. The film was to be more adult-oriented and though it would have taken place in the same reality as the Marvel Cinematic Universe, they would have not crossed over with each other. In May 2017, it was announced that Gina Prince-Bythewood would direct the film, now titled Silver & Black. Production was to begin in March 2018, but the film was later delayed "indefinitely". Prince-Bythewood revealed that the cause of the delay was due to script issues. While the film was initially scheduled to be released on February 8, 2019, Sony removed the release date from the schedule. In August 2018, Sony announced that Silver & Black was canceled in favor of having both characters appear in their own feature films. Black Cat was reportedly a re-worked version of the Silver & Black script while the studio was searching for screenwriters for Silver Sable. Prince-Bythewood will serve as a producer on both projects. As of April 2020, the film is now believed to be cancelled in favour of the proposed live-action television series.


Video games
The Ultimate Marvel incarnation of Silver Sable appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man video game, voiced by Jennifer Hale. This version is aware of Peter Parker's identity as Spider-Man and is the leader of the Wild Pack. The Wild Pack are hired by Bolivar Trask to capture Venom, and later Spider-Man, both of which she eventually succeeds in after several failed attempts. However, Sable later sells out Trask to Spider-Man after her contract with the former expires.
The Ultimate Marvel incarnation of Silver Sable appears as a boss in Spider-Man: Battle for New York, voiced again by Jennifer Hale.
Silver Sable appears as a playable character in the Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 versions of Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, voiced once more by Jennifer Hale.
Silver Sable appears as a playable character in The Punisher: No Mercy.
Silver Sable appears as a non-playable character in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions, voiced once again by Jennifer Hale. This version is the leader of the Wild Pack.
Silver Sable appears as a gear vendor in the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier in Marvel Heroes.
Silver Sable appears as a boss and playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited, voiced by Mary Elizabeth McGlynn.
Silver Sable appears as a playable character in Marvel Avengers Academy, voiced by Morgan Berry.
Silver Sable appears in Marvel's Spider-Man, voiced by Nichole Elise. This version is the leader of Sable International, a private military firm hired by Mayor Norman Osborn to stop Mister Negative and the Inner Demons following a terrorist attack at one of his rallies. Heavy-handed and willing to violate civil liberties in pursuit of their mission, the city quickly turns against Sable International and Spider-Man shuts down several outposts being used to unjustly incarcerate civilians. Furious, Sable tries to capture Spider-Man, but winds up saving his life when Otto Octavius nearly beats him to death. Disillusioned, she returns to Symkaria to rethink her approach while leaving her agents behind to fulfill their contract. In the "Silver Lining" DLC, in which she appears as the first boss, Sable returns to New York and joins forces with Spider-Man to reclaim her stolen technology from Hammerhead so it can be used to fight the oppressive regime controlling Symkaria. Together, they eventually defeat Hammerhead before Sable returns to Symkaria, inspired by Spider-Man to be more heroic.


References


External links
Silver Sable at Marvel.com
Silver Sable at Marvel Database
SilverSable.com, fan site
Silver Sable at Samruby.com