Supergiant is a fictional supervillain character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. 
The character has made several appearances in the media such as animated television and video games.


Publication history
Supergiant first appeared in Infinity (October 2013) and was created by Jonathan Hickman and Jerome Opeña.


Fictional character biography
Supergiant is a member of Thanos' Black Order. She is a mentally unstable omni-path and telepathic parasite who seeks out intellect to devour.In the search for Thanos' son Thane during the Infinity storyline, Supergiant and Corvus Glaive laid siege to the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning and easily defeated the X-Men. They left after realizing that Thane was not there.When the Black Order seized Wakanda, Supergiant was left in control of Black Bolt who she would mentally order to activate the Illuminati's hidden bombs in Wakanda Necropolis. When the Illuminati arrived to save Black Bolt, Supergiant used Black Bolt's ability to defeat the heroes. Upon activating the bomb, Supergiant was faced by Maximus who had the trigger. Maximus triggered the bomb, but also used Lockjaw to transport Supergiant along with the bomb to a distant uninhabited planet where she perished in the explosion.During the "No Surrender" arc, Supergiant came back as a psychic projection, along with the rest of the Black Order, thanks to the Challenger who had set them up against Grandmaster's Lethal Legion. During the battle in Antarctica, the Black Order retreat after Corvus Glaive is killed. Supergiant stays to take control of Thor, but is dissipated by Lethal Legion member Ferene the Other.


Powers and abilities
Supergiant has telepathic abilities that allow her to mind-control anyone and feed on their intellect. Despite her name, she doesn't have the ability to increase in size.


In other media


Television
Supergiant appears in Avengers Assemble, voiced by Hynden Walch.
Supergiant appears in Guardians of the Galaxy, voiced again by Hynden Walch. This version lacks psychic powers, but can grow to a gigantic size and has previously dated Star-Lord prior to the series' events. In the episode "Undercover Angle", Supergiant is imprisoned by the Nova Corps until the Guardians of the Galaxy accidentally free her while they were infiltrating the Nova Corps, though Gamora is able to subdue her. In the episode "Come and Gut Your Love", Supergiant works with another ex-girlfriend of Star-Lord's, Lucy, to attack him after discovering he is J'son's son.


Video games
Supergiant appears as a mini-boss in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
Supergiant is a boss and unlockable playable character in Marvel Future Fight.
Supergiant is a playable character in the Infinity War DLC for Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
Supergiant is a boss in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order, voiced again by Hynden Walch.


References


External links
Supergiant at Marvel Wiki
Supergiant at Comic Vine
Supergiant at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)