Dr. Toni Ho is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


Publication history
Toni Ho first appeared in New Avengers vol. 4 #1 (Dec. 2015) and was created by writer Al Ewing and artist Gerardo Sandoval.


Fictional character biography
Toni Ho is Ho Yinsen's daughter, an engineer with three doctorate degrees.Toni became a member of the Avengers Idea Mechanics after being bought out by Roberto da Costa. She serves as part of a support team for the New Avengers. Toni also studied Aikku Jokinen, the sentient Pod suit's wearer. Toni took an interest in Aikku, not only due to the Pod suit but because she sympathizes with Aikku's personal reasons for not wanting to take Pod off. Toni fell in love with Aikku who also reciprocated these feelings. The two were attacked by the Maker, but Toni defended Aikku and Pod. When Pod ejected Aikku, Toni helped her love interest with the new under-suit Enigma.Toni is a member of the U.S. Avengers as the Iron Patriot. In the group's first mission, the team encountered the Secret Empire in a floating volcanic island base. The group is later approached by Danielle Cage (as a future equivalent of Captain America) when the Golden Skull arrived in the present timeline to steal all the world's wealth. In Miami, Florida, the team crashes a charity gala, only to discover that the wealthy CEOs were kidnapped and replaced by robots. During the battle, the team managed to defeat the Golden Skull (equipped with an armored suit) and Captain America then went back into the future timeline with the Golden Skull as a prisoner.During the "Opening Salvo" part of the Secret Empire storyline, Aikku got concerned over Toni since she had been spending too much time working on her upgraded Iron Patriot armor. During the event, the team arrived in Washington D.C. to confront Hydra. During this, Robert Maverick attacked the group due to nanites that were injected by Hydra's double-agent Kyle. In an attempt to save the group, Toni used a teleportation device to transport Enigma and Squirrel Girl away, with her two teammates ending up in Paris. Toni and the Red Hulk were then captured and imprisoned, where the two saw Roberto almost dead in one of the cells. While adjusting to prison life, Toni managed to save Roberto just in time when Hydra soldiers arrived at their cell. At the prison, Toni helped Roberto defeat the guards and free the Red Hulk from the controlling nanites, enabling the three to take control of the prison. After Toni and Squirrel Girl helped the Champions of Europe in defeating Hydra soldiers in Paris, she contacted Enigma and made plans to have the two return to the United States. She also told Enigma that she would quit the Iron Patriot mantle so that their relationship can continue. During all this, Toni let go of some of her anger towards her father's sacrifice which saved Tony Stark. Afterwards, Toni deactivated the Red Hulk's nanites, enabling Maverick to return to normal. She is later approached by A.I.M. agents wanting her to be the organization's new leader after Roberto quit.While traveling through space, Smasher and the U.S.Avengers were attacked by space pirates known as Warpjackers. After a brief fight, the pirates told them that Glenbrook was actually the planet Kral X and that its ruler, Ritchie Redwood, was ruthless. Arriving in Kral X, the heroes managed to help Cannonball and the planet's rebels in overthrowing Ritchie. After restoring order to the planet, the heroes headed home.After Roberto left the American Intelligence Mechanics, Toni succeeded and allowed the rogue A.I.M. cells to regain the terrorist acronym, as Toni had her organization rebranded as R.E.S.C.U.E.Toni later appears as a member of the Daughters of Liberty as a computer expert while using the alias of Hekate-4 in order to help the original Captain America.


Other versions
An alternate version of the character, Antonia Yinsen, is seen during the 2015 Secret Wars crossover event as someone in power in her father's place in Yinsen City.
An alternate version of the character is shown having had a brief relationship with Rikki Barnes who had been reincarnated into her reality until they were both murdered by the Maker.


In other media
Toni Ho appears in the Avengers Assemble episode "Into the Future", voiced by Laura Bailey. This version is a resistance fighter from a future ruled by Kang the Conqueror.


References


External links
Toni Ho at Marvel Wiki