Bloodsport is the name of several supervillains appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. All of these versions exist in DC's main shared universe, known as the DC Universe.The Robert DuBois version of Bloodsport made his live-action debut in the television series Supergirl, played by David St. Louis. In the DC Extended Universe, Robert DuBois is played by Idris Elba in the film The Suicide Squad (2021).


Publication history
The character of Robert DuBois, created by writer and artist John Byrne, first appeared in Superman #4 (April 1987) as Bloodsport. The second incarnation, Alexander Trent, made his first appearance in The Adventures of Superman #507 (December 1993) and was created by writer Karl Kesel and artist Barry Kitson. The third incarnation, known as Bloodsport III, made his first appearance in Superman #652 (July 2006) and was created by writers Kurt Busiek and Geoff Johns, and artist Pete Woods. Demolitia, a female version of Bloodsport, is introduced by writer David Michelinie, and artists Kieron Dwyer and Denis Rodier in Action Comics #718 (February 1996), in which she procured Bloodsport's technology.


Fictional character biography


Robert DuBois


Alexander Trent


Third version


Characterization


Personality
DuBois pretends that he is a bitter Vietnam veteran who feels greatly betrayed and rejected by his country, thus he enjoys powerful and righteous anger toward his fellow Americans for wasting the freedoms invading Vietnam supposedly helped preserve. However, he has no first-hand experience about this war, ergo, his speeches and character are largely drawn from movies about the war and folk representations of Vietnam War veterans. Though at first he seemed aware that his vet persona was fictional, he grew increasingly delusional and dissociated. Described as a very violent and powerful man, DuBois was plunged into a permanent fantasy about being a soldier, and was even feared by the other dangerous prisoners at Stryker's Island Prison in Metropolis.


Powers and abilities
While Robert DuBois has no superhuman powers, he has proven to be a formidable hand-to-hand combatant when needed due to his excellent physical condition and his fearlessness as a fighter. He's in possession of a device that enables him to teleport high-tech weaponry to him from a distant location instantaneously, with many being one-of-a-kind prototypes from advanced LexCorp research projects. Superman has described the arsenal to be "extradimensional" in both quality and quantity.He is incredibly strong and significantly more durable than the average human, as evidenced by his survival of several physical altercations with Superman. DuBois' reflexes and senses are extraordinarily keen and allow him to respond to Deadshot and alarm Superman. He's a quick and accurate shooter with a wide variety of firearms, from handguns to shoulder-fired weapons. He's a fully ambidextrous marksman, and can shoot with either hand without any loss of accuracy or speed. On top of his sheer size and musculature, the insane DuBois seems to have a significant level of manic strength and intensity: In a boxing match, he stood toe-to-toe with Alexander Trent, a man with borderline superhuman strength and reflexes.


In other media


Television
The Robert DuBois incarnation of Bloodsport makes non-speaking appearances in Justice League Unlimited. Introduced in the episode "Fight Club", he fights in Roulette's Meta-Brawl. When Green Arrow and Black Canary try to end it, DuBois and the other fighters attempt to stop them, but are subdued. As of the episode "The Great Brain Robbery", Bloodsport became a member of Gorilla Grodd's Secret Society. Prior to and during the episode "Alive!", Lex Luthor takes control of the Society, but Grodd mounts a mutiny in an attempt to reclaim his position. In the ensuing free-for-all, Bloodsport initially sides with the latter, but later defects to Luthor's side.
An original character based on Bloodsport named Van McNulty appears in the Smallville episode "Extinction", portrayed by Jesse Metcalfe. He was the first to manufacture Kryptonite bullets and use them against Clark Kent, believing him to be a "meteor freak".
The Robert DuBois incarnation of Bloodsport appears in the Supergirl episode "Girl of Steel", portrayed by David St. Louis. This version was originally part of the military until he was caught stealing weaponry and became a mercenary and terrorist. DuBois is hired by Morgan Edge to attack the Girl of Steel statue unveiling and destroy the surrounding area. However, Supergirl notices the attack while DuBois is underwater and raises his ship, foiling his plans and seeing him arrested.


Film

A hybridized incarnation of Bloodsport appears in Justice League vs. the Fatal Five, voiced by Tom Kenny. An amalgam of Alexander Trent and Robert DuBois, he is a deranged conspiracy theorist rather than a white supremacist. He holds a newsroom hostage until Miss Martian and Batman arrest him.
The Robert DuBois incarnation of Bloodsport appears in The Suicide Squad, portrayed by Idris Elba. This version is a Black British mercenary armed with a high-tech suit and collapsible weapons that only he can use, who is serving time in prison for shooting Superman with a Kryptonite bullet. Additionally, he has a daughter named Tyla.


Video games
The Robert DuBois incarnation of Bloodsport inspired by the DC Extended Universe version appeared as a skin in Fortnite Battle Royale.


See also
List of Superman enemies


References


External links
Bloodsport (Robert DuBois) at DC Comics Wiki
Bloodsport (Alexander Trent) at DC Comics Wiki
Bloodsport III at DC Comics Wiki