Brainiac 8 (Indigo) is a fictional superhero character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics.


Publication history
Brainiac 8 first appeared in Titans/Young Justice: Graduation Day #1 and was created by Judd Winick and Alé Garza.


Fictional character biography
Indigo is a Coluan and a member of the Outsiders. Born in a distant future era, she comes to the 21st century badly damaged, and desperately looks for a cybernetic or mechanical organism capable of repairing her. In the process, she tries to install her self-repairing routines into the Metal Men, but they are incapable of assisting her in maintenance. Then she turns to Cyborg, but in the process, she damages him.
Attacked by the combined forces of Young Justice and the Titans, she retreats and switches into an offensive mode. Although the combined forces of the young superheroes best her, adding further damage, she is able to activate a dormant Superman robot before shutting down for repairs. Yet when the android comes after the young heroes (killing Lilith Clay and Donna Troy), Red Arrow (then going by the name "Arsenal") briefly reactivates the young female droid and sends her to stop the Superman Android before shutting down again.
When Red Arrow (still calling himself Arsenal at the time) reforms the Outsiders, he claims the female droid, now called Indigo, as a teammate.
Her memory was supposedly damaged in the aftermath of her dramatic appearance; any remainder was wiped out by S.T.A.R. Labs. Indigo displays a very naive personality, guilelessly taking pleasure in the simple things in life, like doing laundry for friends, bowling, and silent movies. She often struggles to learn how to behave in society, and takes her cues from those she lives with. As she grows more integrated in her quest to earn the acceptance and forgiveness of Nightwing and her teammates, she even manages to find love with Shift.
It was revealed in that Indigo is actually Brainiac 8, and every bit the ruthless, inhuman villain that previous Brainiacs were. Indigo as the Outsiders knew her is essentially a subprogram, designed by Brainiac 8's "grandfather", Brainiac 6, to endear her to the superhero community.Brainiac 8 had been sent back in time to kill Donna Troy, because a living Donna would negate Coluan domination over the "organics" after the "Infinite Crisis" events. After a beating by the combined forces of Teen Titans and Outsiders, the Indigo persona wrests control from Brainiac 8, and reveals herself to be a genuine personality. Weeping, she begs Shift to kill her before the Brainac 8 persona could harm the people she loves. Shift, in tears, transforms her molecular structure into flesh, killing her in the process.The Origins and Omens back-up story indicated that Indigo might soon return, but writer Judd Winick left the book before this plot thread could be followed up on.Indigo eventually returns in Teen Titans (vol. 3) #98 as part of Superboy-Prime's Legion of Doom. She now sports a cybernetic arm and eye, the origins of which are unexplained. During Teen Titans (vol. 3) #100, she is once again destroyed by Red Robin and Robin.In 2016, DC Comics implemented another relaunch of its books called "DC Rebirth", which restored its continuity to a form much as it was prior to "The New 52". Indigo appears as a member of the Fatal Five. While fighting Supergirl, she got torn into pieces by Zor-El. Then, her remains were gathered and shipped to Mokkari from Magog.


Powers and abilities
Indigo possesses an analytical computer-like brain, enabling her to think and perceive information at great speeds. As a unique inorganic being, she can fly, project force fields, and fire blasts of energy from her eyes or hands. Her physical capabilities are far beyond human limitations. She is also able to interact with and control any technology, no matter how modern.


Other characters with the name Indigo
Indigo was also the name of a character in DP 7, one of the titles of Marvel Comics' short-lived New Universe imprint.
Indigo was another name used by the DC superhero Deep Blue.
Indigo was also the name of a member of Sovereign Seven.
Indigo-1 was also the name of the leader of the Indigo Tribe in The Blackest Night crossover event in 2009. She and her tribe derived their power from compassion.


In other media
Indigo appears in a season 1 of Supergirl, portrayed by Laura Vandervoort (who portrayed Supergirl on the TV show Smallville). She debuts in the episode "Solitude". It is mentioned that she was previously known as Brainiac-8, is a Coluan and a possible descendant of original Brainiac. Indigo initially appears as a blonde human on video monitors, but attains a form closer to that of her comics counterpart when in the real world. Eventually crossing paths with Supergirl, Indigo hacks a secret military base and also teams up with Supergirl's uncle and enemy Non. She reveals to Supergirl as she dies that she was the reason Fort Rozz and Supergirl escaped the Phantom Zone. Her plan is to destroy National City with a nuclear weapon, but she is killed by Winn Schott, Jr. when he downloads a virus into her. However, Non later reanimates her. Indigo reappears in "Myriad", now working with Non conducting Project Myriad. In the season finale "Better Angels", she and Non try to kill all of the people in National City using Myriad. Indigo is killed for good during a final confrontation with the Martian Manhunter and Supergirl when the former rips her body in half. Before she dies, she reveals that she has locked the system to activate Myriad, so Kara and J'onn will have no choice but to watch everyone on Earth die. Indigo is ultimately defeated in death when Supergirl saves the world by flying Fort Rozz into space, pushing herself to her limits to push it out of the earth's orbit, saving the world.Indigo appears as a playable character in the DC TV Super-Villains DLC pack in Lego DC Super-Villains.


References


External links
Indigo at DC Cosmic Teams: frequently updated biographical information, spoilers.
Indigo at Titans Tower: Short biographical information and two images.